.\" @(#)xlock.man	1.11 91/09/27; Copyright (c) 1991 - Patrick J. Naughton
.\" xlockmore updates from David A. Bagley
.TH XLOCK 1 "27 Jan 1995" "X11R6 Contrib"
.SH NAME
xlock \- Locks the local X display until a password is entered.

.IX xlock#(1) "" "\fLxlock\fP(1)"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xlock
[
.BI \-display " dsp"
]
[
.BI \-help
]
[
.BI \-name "resource-name"
]
[
.BI \-resources
]
[
.BI -/+remote
]
[
.BI -/+mono
]
[
.BI -/+nolock
]
[
.BI -/+allowroot
]
[
.BI -/+enablesaver
]
[
.BI -/+allowaccess
]
[
.BI -/+grabmouse
]
[
.BI -/+echokeys
]
[
.BI -/+usefirst
]
[
.BI -/+v
]
[
.BI -/+inwindow
]
[
.BI -/+inroot
]
[
.BI -/+timeleapsed
]
[
.BI -/+install
]
[
.BI \-delay " usecs"
]
[
.BI \-batchcount " num"
]
[
.BI \-nice " level"
]
[
.BI \-timeout " seconds"
]
[
.BI \-saturation " value"
]
[
.BI \-font " fontname"
]
[
.BI \-bg " color"
]
[
.BI \-fg " color"
]
[
.BI \-mode " mode"
]
[
.BI \-username " textstring"
]
[
.BI \-password " textstring"
]
[
.BI \-info " textstring"
]
[
.BI \-validate " textstring"
]
[
.BI \-invalid " textstring"
]
[
.BI \-geometry " geom"
]
[
.BI \-forceLogout " minutes"
]
[
.BI \-logoutButtonLabel " textstring"
]
[
.BI \-logoutButtonHelp " textstring"
]
[
.BI \-logoutFailedString " textstring"
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xlock
locks the X server till the user enters their password at the keyboard.
While
.B xlock
is running,
all new server connections are refused.
The screen saver is disabled.
The mouse cursor is turned off.
The screen is blanked and a changing pattern is put on the screen.
If a key or a mouse button is pressed then the user is prompted for the
password of the user who started
.B xlock.

If the correct password is typed, then the screen is unlocked and the X
server is restored.  When typing the password Control-U and Control-H are
active as kill and erase respectively.  To return to the locked screen,
click in the small icon version of the changing pattern.

.SH "NOTE ON ETIQUETTE"
.I Xlock
should not be used on public terminals when there is a high demand for them.

If you find a public terminal that has been locked by another user and
there are no other terminals available, and the terminal appears to have
been left idle for a while (normally more than 15 minutes), it is fair to
try to reset the session in some manner.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
.B \-display " dsp"
The
.I display
option sets the X11 display to lock.
.B xlock
locks all available screens on a given server,
and restricts you to locking only a local server such as
.BI unix:0,
.BI localhost:0,
or
.BI :0
unless you set the
.B \-remote
option.
.TP 5
.B \-name " resource-name"
.I resource-name
is used instead of
.B XLock
when looking for resources to configure xlock.
.TP 5
.B \-mode " modename"
As of this writing there are 28 display modes supported
(plus one more for random selection of one of the 28).
.TP 8
.B hop
Hop mode shows the "real plane fractals" from the September 1986 issue of
Scientific American.
.TP 8
.B life
Life mode shows Conway's game of life.
.TP 8
.B qix
Qix mode shows the spinning lines similar to the old video game
by the same name.
.TP 8
.B swarm
Swarm mode shows a swarm of bees following a wasp.
.TP 8
.B rotor
Rotor mode shows a swirling rotorlike thing.
.TP 8
.B pyro
Pyro mode shows fireworks.
.TP 8
.B flame
Flame mode shows weird but cool cosmic flame fractals.
.TP 8
.B worm
Worm mode shows wiggly worms...
.TP 8
.B spline
Spline mode shows colorful moving splines, from spline fun #3.
.TP 8
.B maze
Maze mode shows a random maze and a depth first search solution.
.TP 8
.B sphere
Sphere mode draws a bunch of shaded spheres.
.TP 8
.B hyper
Hyper mode draws a spinning tesseract in 4D space.
.TP 8
.B helix
Helix mode shows string art.
.TP 8
.B rock
Rock mode shows asteroid field with a twist.
.TP 8
.B blot
Blot mode shows Rorschach's ink blot test. (I always see a daemon,
what does that mean?)
.TP 8
.B grav
Grav mode shows orbiting planets.
.TP 8
.B bounce
Bounce mode shows bouncing footballs.
.TP 8
.B world
World mode makes the Earth spin.
.TP 8
.B rect
Rect mode makes the stippled rectangles.
.TP 8
.B bat
Bat mode makes bouncing flying bats.
.TP 8
.B galaxy
Galaxy mode makes crashing spinning galaxies.
.TP 8
.B kaleid
Kaleid mode makes a kaleidoscope.
.TP 8
.B wator
Wator mode makes a Water-Torus planet of fish and sharks.
.TP 8
.B life3d
Life3d mode shows Bays' game of 3D life.
.TP 8
.B swirl
Swirl mode makes animated swirling patterns.
.TP 8
.B image
Image mode shows several logos randomly appearing on the screen. 
.TP 8
.B bomb
Bomb mode displays countdown to auto logout. 
.TP 8
.B blank
Blank mode shows nothing but a black screen.
.TP 8
.B random
Random mode picks a random mode from all of the above except
image, bomb, and blank mode.

.TP 5
.B \-delay " usecs"
The
.I delay
option sets the speed at which a mode will operate.  It simply sets the
number of microseconds to delay between batches of "hopalong pixels",
"qix lines", "life generations", "world blits", "swarm motions", etc.  In
blank mode, it is important to set this to some small number of seconds,
because the keyboard and mouse are only checked after each delay, so you
cannot set the delay too high, but a delay of zero would needlessly
consume cpu checking for mouse and keyboard input in a tight loop, since
blank mode has no work to do.
.TP 5
.B \-batchcount " num"
The
.I batchcount
option sets number of
.I things
to do per batch to
.I num .
In hop mode this refers to the number of pixels rendered in the same color.
In life mode it is the number of generations to let each species live.
In qix mode it is the number of lines rendered in the same color.
In swarm mode it is the number of bees.
In rotor mode it is the number of rotor thingys which whirr...
In pyro mode it is the maximum number flying rockets at one time.
In flame mode it is the number of levels to recurse (larger = more complex).
In worm mode it is the number of worms.
In spline mode it is the upper bound on the of points "splined".
In maze mode it is the upper bound on the of size of the maze.
In sphere mode it means nothing.
In hyper mode it means nothing.
In helix mode it means nothing.
In rock mode it is the number of asteroids on the screen at once.
In blot mode this refers to the number of pixels rendered in the same color.
In grav mode it is the number of planets.
In bounce mode it is the number of balls.
In world mode it is the number of worlds.
In rect mode it means nothing.
In bat mode it is the number of bats.
In galaxy mode it means the number of galaxies.
In kaleid mode it means nothing.
In wator mode it means the breed time for the fish.
In life3d mode it is the number of generations to let each species live.
In swirl mode it means the number of "knots".
In image mode it means it is the number of logos on screen at once.
In bomb mode it means nothing.
In blank mode it means nothing.
.TP 5
.B \-nice " nicelevel"
The
.I nice
option sets system nicelevel of the xlock process to
.I nicelevel .
.TP 5
.B \-timeout " seconds"
The
.I timeout
option sets the number of
.I seconds
before the password screen will time out.
.TP 5
.B \-saturation " value"
The
.I saturation
option sets saturation of the color ramp used to
.I value .
0 is grayscale and 1 is very rich color.  0.4 is a nice pastel.
.TP 5
.B \-font " fontname"
The
.I font
option sets the font to be used on the prompt screen.
.TP 5
.B \-fg " color"
The
.I fg
option sets the color of the text on the password screen to
.I color .
.TP 5
.B \-bg " color"
The
.I bg
option sets the color of the background on the password screen to
.I color .
.TP 5
.B \-username " textstring"
.I textstring
is shown in front of user name, defaults to "Name: ".
.TP 5
.B \-password " textstring"
.I textstring
is the password prompt string, defaults to "Password: ".
.TP 5
.B \-info " textstring"
.I textstring
is an informational message to tell the user what to do, defaults to
"Enter password to unlock; select icon to lock.".
.TP 5
.BI \-validate " textstring"
.I textstring
is a message shown while validating the password, defaults to
"Validating login..."
.TP 5
.BI \-invalid " textstring"
.I textstring
is a  message shown when password is invalid, defaults to
"Invalid login."
.TP 5
.BI \-geometry " geom"
The
.I geometry
option sets
.I geom
the size and offset of the lock window (normally the entire screen).
The entire screen format is still used for entering the password.  The
purpose is to see the screen even though it is locked.  This should be
used with caution since many of the modes will fail if the windows
are far from square or are too small.  This should also be used with
-enablesaver to protect screen from phosphor burn.
.TP 5
.BI \-forceLogout " minutes"
The
.I forceLogout
option sets
.I minutes
to auto-logout.  This might not be enforced depending how your system is
configured.
.TP 5
.BI \-logoutButtonLabel " textstring"
.I textstring
is a message shown inside logout button when logout button is displayed.
May not be available, depending how your system is configured.  Defaults to
"Logout".
.TP 5
.BI \-logoutButtonHelp " textstring"
.I textstring
is a message shown outside logout button when logout button is displayed.
May not be available, depending how your system is configured.  Defaults to
"Click the \\"Logout\\" button to log out current\\n
user and make workstation available."
.TP 5
.BI \-logoutFailedString " textstring"
.I textstring
is a message shown when a logout is attempted and fails.
May not be available, depending how your system is configured.  Defaults to
"Logout attempt FAILED.\\n
Current user could not be automatically logged out."
.TP 5
.B \-resources
The
.I resources
option prints the default resource file for xlock to standard output.
.TP 5
.B -/+remote
The
.I remote
option tells xlock to not stop you from locking remote X11 servers.  This
option should be used with care and is intended mainly to lock X11 terminals
which cannot run
.I xlock
locally.  If you lock someone else's workstation, they will have to know
.B your
password to unlock it.
.TP 5
.B -/+mono
The
.I mono
option causes xlock to display monochrome, (black and white) pixels rather
than the default colored ones on color displays
.TP 5
.B +/-nolock
The
.I nolock
option causes xlock to only draw the patterns and not lock the display.
A key press or a mouse click will terminate the screen saver.
.TP 5
.B -/+allowroot
The
.I allowroot
option allows the root password to unlock the server as well as the user
who started xlock.  May not be able to turn this on and off depending
on your system and how xlock was configured.
.TP 5
.B -/+enablesaver
By default xlock will disable the normal X server's screen saver since
it is in effect a replacement for it.  Since it is possible to set delay
parameters long enough to cause phosphor burn on some displays, this
option will turn back on the default screen saver which is very careful
to keep most of the screen black.
.TP 5
.B -/+allowaccess
This option is required for servers which do not allow clients to modify
the host access control list.  It is also useful if you need to run x
clients on a server which is locked for some reason...  When
.I allowaccess
is true, the X11 server is left open for clients to attach and thus
lowers the inherent security of this lock screen.  A side effect of using
this option is that if xlock is killed -KILL, the access control list is
not lost.
.TP 5
.B -/+grabmouse
The
.I grabmouse
option causes xlock to grab the mouse and keyboard, this is the default.
xlock can not lock the screen without this.
.TP 5
.B -/+echokeys
The
.I echokeys
option causes xlock to echo '?' characters for each key typed into the
password prompt.  Some consider this a security risk, so the default is
to not echo anything. 
.TP 5
.B -/+usefirst
The
.I usefirst
option causes xlock to use the keystroke which got you to the password screen
as the first character in the password.  The default is to ignore the first
key pressed.
.TP 5
.B -/+v
Verbose mode, tells what options it is going to use.
.TP 5
.B -/+inwindow
Runs xlock in a window, so that you can iconify, move, or resize it and
still use your screen for other stuff.  When running in a window, xlock no
longer locks your screen, it just looks good.  It means you can now run
multiple xlocks in different parts of your screen, but that would not be
particularly 'nice'.
.TP 5
.B -/+inroot
Runs xlock in your root window.  Like the
.I inwindow
option it no longer locks the screen, it just looks good.
.TP 5
.B -/+timeelapsed
Allows you to find out how long a machine is locked so you can complain
to an administrator that someone is hogging a machine.
.TP 5
.B -/+install
Allows xlock to install its own colormap if xlock runs out of colors.

.SH BUGS
"kill -KILL
.B xlock
" causes the server that was locked to be unusable, since all hosts
(including localhost) were removed from the access control list
to lock out new X clients, and since xlock could not catch SIGKILL,
it terminated before restoring the access control list.  This will
leave the X server in a state where
\fI"you can no longer connect to that server,
and this operation cannot be reversed unless you reset the server."\fP
		-From the X11R4 Xlib Documentation, Chapter 7.

NCD terminals do not allow xlock to remove all the hosts from the access
control list.  Therefore you will need to use the "-remote" and
"-allowaccess" switches.  If you happen to run without "-allowaccess" on an
NCD terminal,
.B xlock
will not work and you will need to reboot the terminal, or simply go into
the SETUP menus, under 'Network Parameters', and turn off TCP/IP access
control. 

.SH SEE ALSO
X(1), Xlib Documentation.
.SH AUTHOR
Maintained by:
.br
 David A. Bagley      (bagleyd@source.asset.com)
.br
 The latest version is currently at:
.br
 ftp.x.org in /contrib/applications/xlockmore-2.?.tar.gz

Original Author:
.br
 Patrick J. Naughton	 (naughton@eng.sun.com)
.br
 Mailstop 21-14
.br
 Sun Microsystems Laboratories, Inc.
.br
 Mountain View, CA  94043
.br
 415/336-1080

with many additional contributors.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 1988-91 by Patrick J. Naughton
.br
Copyright (c) 1993-95 by David A. Bagley

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation. 

The original BSD daemon is Copyright (c) 1988 Marshall Kirk McKusick.
All Rights Reserved.
.br
Sun, HP, and SGI icons have their respective copyrights.
