.TH XScreenSaver 1 "27-Apr-97" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
abstractile - draw abstract mosaic patterns of interlocking tiles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B abstractile
[\-sleep \fIseconds\fP] [\-speed \fIint\fP] [\-tile \fItile_mode\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIabstractile\fP program draws chaotic grids of randomly colored
and shaped interlocking tiles.
.SH OPTIONS
.I abstractile
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-sleep \fIseconds\fP
Specify the number of seconds to sleep between screens (0-60).
.TP 8
.B \-speed \fIint\fP
A value between 0 and 5 used to specify the speed at which each screen is drawn.
.TP 8
.B \-tile \fItile_mode\fP
The type of tile that is drawn on each screen.  Legal values are
\fIrandom\fP, \fIflat\fP, \fIthin\fP, \fIoutline\fP, 
\fIblock\fP, \fIneon\fP, and \fItiled\fP
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2004 by Steve Sundstrom.  Based on
examples from the hacks directory of xscreensaver,
Copyright (c) 1997, 1998, 2002 Jamie Zawinski
<jwz@jwz.org>

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation.
.SH AUTHOR
Steve Sundstrom 
