.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
apollonian \- Descartes Circle Theorem.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B apollonian
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-window]
[\-root]
[\-no-label]
[\-no-altgeom]
[\-cycles \fInumber\fP]
[\-ncolors \fInumber\fP]
[\-delay \fInumber\fP]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Packs a large circle with smaller circles, demonstrating the Descartes
Circle Theorem.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-label | \-no-label
Draw Labels.  Boolean.
.TP 8
.B \-altgeom | \-no-altgeom
Include Alternate Geometries.  Boolean.
.TP 8
.B \-cycles \fInumber\fP
Depth.	1 - 20.  Default: 20.
.TP 8
.B \-ncolors \fInumber\fP
Number of Colors.  Default: 64.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 1000000 (1.00 seconds.).
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate and CPU load.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2002 by Allan R. Wilks and David Bagley.  Permission to
use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
documentation.  No representations are made about the suitability of
this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express
or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Allan R. Wilks and David Bagley. 
