.de EX		\"Begin example
.ne 5
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp .5
.nf
.in +.5i
..
.de EE
.fi
.in -.5i
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp .5
..
.TH XScreenSaver 1 "5-May-2004" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
apple2 - Apple ][ display emulator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B apple2
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-foreground \fIcolor\fP]
[\-background \fIcolor\fP] [\-window] [\-root] [\-mono] [\-install]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-program \fIcommand to run\fP]
[\-basic] [\-slideshow] [\-text]
[\-meta] [\-esc] [\-bs] [\-del] [\-fast]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I apple2 
program simulates an original Apple ][ Plus computer in all its 1979
glory. It also reproduces the appearance of display on a color
television set of the period.
.PP
There are 3 modes: basic, slideshow, and text. Normally it chooses a
mode randomly, but you can override with the \fI\-basic\fP,
\fI\-slideshow\fP, or \fI\-text\fP options.

In basic mode a simulated user types in a Basic program and runs it.

In slideshow mode it chooses a number of images from the image source
you configured into XScreenSaver and displays them within the
limitations of the Apple ][ display hardware. With only 6 available
colors, you can only make out the general shape of the pictures.

In text mode it displays the output of a command (by default your
system's fortune program, but can be overridden with \fI\-program\fP).

In text mode, it is also a fully functional (if anachronistic)
vt100 terminal emulator.
.SH OPTIONS
.I apple2
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-mono 
If on a color display, pretend we're on a monochrome display.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-basic
Choose basic mode
.TP 8
.B \-slideshow
Choose slideshow mode
.TP 8
.B \-text
Choose text mode
.TP 8
.B \-program \fIsh-command\fP
In text mode, the command to run to generate the text to display. This
option may be any string acceptable to /bin/sh. The program will be
run at the end of a pipe, and any characters that it prints to
\fIstdout\fP will be printed on the Apple ][ display. If the program
exits, it will be launched again after 3 seconds.  Default:
.BR fortune (1).

In text mode, \fIapple2\fP emulates a vt100 terminal running on a 40x24
uppercase-only screen.

For example:
.EX
apple2 -text \\
       -program 'cat /usr/src/linux*/README | fold -sw40'
apple2 -text -program 'ping apple.com'
apple2 -text -program 'ps -e'
apple2 -text -program 'od -txCz -w7 /dev/urandom'
apple2 -text -program 'cat /dev/random'
apple2 -text -fast -program 'xemacs -nw -q -f life'
apple2 -text -fast \\
       -program 'xemacs -nw -q --eval "(hanoi 5)"'
.EE
You can also use \fIapple2\fP as an extremely lo-fi replacement for the
.BR xterm (1)
and
.BR gnome-terminal (1)
terminal emulators:
.EX
apple2 -text -fast -program tcsh
.EE
.TP 8
.B \-pty
In \fI\-text\fP mode, launch the sub-program under a pty so that it
can address the screen directly.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-pipe
In \fI\-text\fP mode, launch the sub-program at the end of a pipe: 
do not let it address the screen directly.
.TP 8
.B \-esc
When the user types a key with the Alt or Meta keys held down, send an
ESC character first.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-meta
When Meta or Alt are held down, set the high bit on the character instead.
.TP 8
.B \-del
Swap Backspace and Delete.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-bs
Do not swap Backspace and Delete.
.TP 8
.B \-fast
Normally, characters are printed at the speed of an original Apple][
computer; however, when using this program as a terminal emulator,
the novelty of those 300 baud characters might wear off.  You can use
the \fI\-fast\fP option to speed things up a bit.
.SH TERMINAL EMULATION
By default, \fIapple2\fP allocates a pseudo-tty for the \fI\-text\fP-mode
sub-process to run under.  This has the desirable side effect that the
program will be able to use
.BR ioctl (2)
to fetch information about terminal parameters and window size, which
many programs (such as
.BR top (1))
need to run properly. \fIapple2\fP will also set the environment
variable \fITERM\fP to \fIvt100\fP in the child process.

Any characters typed on the apple2 window will be passed along to
the sub-process.  (Note that this only works when running in "window"
mode, not when running in \fI\-root\fP mode under xscreensaver.)
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.TP 8
.B TERM
to inform the sub-process of the type of terminal emulation.
.SH X RESOURCES
Notable X resources supported include the following which correspond
to standard TV controls:
.BR analogTVTint ,
.BR analogTVColor ,
.BR analogTVBrightness , 
and
.BR analogTVContrast
which correspond to standard TV controls. They range from 0 to
100,except for tint which is an angle between -180 and +180.
.SH TRADEMARKS
Apple ][ and Applesoft are trademarks of Apple Computer.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xscreensaver (1),
.BR bsod (1),
.BR fortune (1),
.BR phosphor (1),
.BR starwars (1),
.BR ljlatest (1),
.BR dadadodo (1),
.BR webcollage (1),
.BR driftnet (1)
.BR EtherPEG ,
.BR EtherPeek ,
.BR console_codes (4).
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2002-2003 by Trevor Blackwell.  Permission to use, copy,
modify, distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for
any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that the above
copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
No representations are made about the suitability of this software for
any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Television and Apple ][ emulation by Trevor Blackwell <tlb@tlb.org>.
Slideshow and text mode by Jamie Zawinski <jwz@jwz.org>.
Pty and vt100 emulation by Fredrik Tolf <fredrik@dolda2000.com>.
