.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
barcode - draws a random sequence of barcodes for the products you enjoy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B barcode
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-window]
[\-root]
[\-delay \fInumber\fP]
[\-clock]
[\-clock24]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This draws a random sequence of colorful barcodes scrolling across your
screen.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 10000 (0.02 seconds.).
.TP 8
.B \-clock
Instead of drawing a stream of barcodes, draw a barcode-based digital clock.
.TP 8
.B \-clock24
Same as \fI\-clock\fP, but display 24-hour time instead of 12-hour time.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2003 by Dan Bornstein.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Dan Bornstein <danfuzz@milk.com>
