.TH "Binary Horizon" 1 "23-Mar-20" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
binaryhorizon - A system of path tracing particles evolves continuously. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B binaryhorizon
[\-fps]
[\-install]
[\-noinstall]
[\-mono]
[\-root]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-window] 
[\-window\-id \fIwindow\-id\fP]
[\-color]
[\-no\-color]
[\-growth\-delay \fIdelayms\fP]
[\-particle\-number \fIparticles\fP]
[\-duration \fIsecs\fP]
[\-bicolor]
[\-monocolor]
.SH DESCRIPTION
A system of path tracing particles evolves continuously from an
initial horizon, alternating between colors. 
.SH OPTIONS
.I binaryhorizon
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate and CPU load.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-mono
If on a color display, pretend we're on a monochrome display.
.TP 8
.B \-noinstall
Don't install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use. Legal values are the name of a visual
class or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window. This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-window\-id \fIwindow\-id\fP
Specify which window id to use.
.TP 8
.B \-color (Default)
Particles have random generated colors that gradually change over time.
.TP 8
.B \-no\-color
Use the original black and white visualization.
.TP 8
.B \-bicolor (Default)
Particles have 2 random colors, starting as white and black.
.TP 8
.B \-monocolor
Particles have 2 colors, one starting as white and gradually changing,
and one staying black.
.TP 8
.B \-fade (Default)
Particles gradually fade between colors over time.
.TP 8
.B \-no-fade
Every particle is a random color.
.TP 8
.B \-growth\-delay \fIdelayms\fP (Default: \fI10000\fP)
Delay in ms between growth cycles. More delay, slower (but less CPU intensive).
.TP 8
.B \-particles\-number \fIparticles\fP (Default: \fI5000\fP)
The number of particles in the system. With more particles the fps
can also be affected.
.TP 8
.B \-duration \fIsecs\fP (Default: \fI30\fP)
How long between full resets.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global
resources stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1),
.br
http://complexification.net/
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2020 by Patrick Leiser <patrick27leiser@yahoo.com>.
.br
Based on code \(co 2003 by J. Tarbell <complex@complexification.net>.
.br
XScreenSaver port: Emilio Del Tessandoro <emilio.deltessa@gmail.com>
.SH AUTHOR
Patrick Leiser <patrick27leiser@yahoo.org>, Mar 2020.
.br
J. Tarbell <complex@complexification.net>, Jun 2003.
.br
Emilio Del Tessandoro <emilio.deltessa@gmail.com>, Aug 2014.
