.TH XScreenSaver 1 "15-May-97" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
bouboule - draws spinning 3D blobs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bouboule
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-foreground \fIcolor\fP] [\-background \fIcolor\fP] [\-window] [\-root] [\-mono] [\-install] [\-visual \fIvisual\fP] [\-ncolors \fIinteger\fP] [\-delay \fImicroseconds\fP] [\-cycles \fIinteger\fP] [\-count \fIinteger\fP] [\-3d]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIbouboule\fP program draws spinning 3D blobs.
.SH OPTIONS
.I bouboule
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-mono 
If on a color display, pretend we're on a monochrome display.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-ncolors \fIinteger\fP
How many colors should be used (if possible).  Default 64.
The colors used cycle through the hue, making N stops around
the color wheel.
.TP 8
.B \-cycles \fIinteger\fP

.TP 8
.B \-count \fIinteger\fP

.TP 8
.B \-3d
Do red/blue 3d separations (for 3d glasses.)

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1),
.BR xlock (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1996 by Jeremie Petit.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation. 

.SH AUTHOR
Jeremie Petit <jpetit@essi.fr>, 1996.

3D support by Henrik Theiling <theiling@coli-uni-sb.de>, 04-Sep-96.

VMS support by Jouk Jansen <joukj@alpha.chem.uva.nl>, 01-Feb-96.

TrueColor support by David Bagley <bagleyd@bigfoot.com>, 01-Feb-96.

Ability to run standalone or with \fIxscreensaver\fP added by 
Jamie Zawinski <jwz@jwz.org>, 15-May-97.
