.de EX		\"Begin example
.ne 5
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp .5
.nf
.in +.5i
..
.de EE
.fi
.in -.5i
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp .5
..
.TH XScreenSaver 1 "5-May-2004" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
bsod - Blue Screen of Death emulator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bsod
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-foreground \fIcolor\fP]
[\-background \fIcolor\fP] [\-window] [\-root] [\-mono] [\-install]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP] [\-delay \fIseconds\fP]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I bsod
program is the finest in personal computer emulation.  
.PP
.I bsod
steps through a set of screens, each one a recreation of a different failure
mode of an operating system.  Systems depicted include
Windows 3.1, Windows 95, Windows NT, MS-DOS, AmigaDOS 1.3, Linux,
SCO UNIX, BSD UNIX, HPUX, Solaris, Tru64, VMS, HVX/GCOS6, IBM OS/390, OS/2,
MacOS (MacsBug, Bomb, Sad Mac, and OSX), Atari ST, Apple ][+, VMware and
NCD X Terminals.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.I bsod
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-mono 
If on a color display, pretend we're on a monochrome display.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fIdelay\fP
The duration each crash-mode is displayed before selecting another.
.TP 8
.B \-only \fIwhich\fP
Tell it to run only one mode, e.g., \fI\-only HPUX\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate and CPU load.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH X RESOURCES
Notable X resources supported include the following, which control which
hacks are displayed and which aren't.
.BR doWindows ,
.BR doNT ,
.BR doWin2K ,
.BR doWin10 ,
.BR doAmiga ,
.BR doMac ,
.BR doMac1 ,
.BR doMacsBug ,
.BR doMacX ,
.BR doSCO ,
.BR doAtari ,
.BR doBSD ,
.BR doLinux ,
.BR doSparcLinux ,
.BR doHPPALinux ,
.BR doBlitDamage ,
.BR doSolaris ,
.BR doHPUX ,
.BR doApple2 ,
.BR doOS390 ,
.BR doTru64 ,
.BR doVMS ,
.BR doMSDOS ,
.BR doOS2 ,
.BR doHVX ,
.BR doVMware ,
and
.BR doATM .
Each of these is a Boolean resource, they all default to true, except
for doAtari, doBSD, doSparcLinux, and doHPPALinux, which are turned off
by default, because they're really not all that interesting looking
unless you're a fan of those systems.  

There are command-line options for all of these:
e.g., \fI\-bsd\fP, \fI\-no-bsd\fP.  (Also note the \fI\-only\fP option.)
.SH BUGS
Unlike the systems being simulated, \fIbsod\fP does not require a
reboot after running.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1),
.BR http://www.microsoft.com/ ,
.BR http://www.apple.com/ ,
.BR http://www.sco.com/ ,
.BR http://www.kernel.org/ ,
and
.BR http://www.amiga.de/ .
.SH TRADEMARKS
Microsoft Windows, Microsoft Windows 95, and Microsoft Windows NT are all
registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation.  Apple Macintosh is a
registered trademark of Apple Computer.  Amiga is a registered trademark of
Amiga International, Inc.  Atari ST is probably a trademark, too, but it's
hard to tell who owns it.  Linux is a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds,
but it isn't his fault. OS/2 is a registered trademark of International 
Business Machines Corporation. VMware is a registered trademark of VMware, Inc.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1998-2003 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.  No animals were harmed during the testing of
these simulations.  Always mount a scratch monkey.
.SH AUTHOR
Concept cribbed from Stephen Martin <smartin@mks.com>.  This version is by
Jamie Zawinski <jwz@jwz.org>, with contributions from many others.
