.TH XScreenSaver 1 "05-Apr-1999" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
decayscreen \- make a screen meltdown.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B decayscreen
[\-\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-\-window]
[\-\-root]
[\-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-mono]
[\-\-install]
[\-\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-\-delay \fIusecs\fP]
[\-\-duration \fIsecs\fP]
[\-\-mode \fImode\fP]
[\-\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIdecayscreen\fP program creates a melting effect by randomly
shifting rectangles around the screen.

The image that it manipulates will be grabbed from the portion of
the screen underlying the window, or from the system's video input, 
or from a random file on disk, as indicated by 
the \fIgrabDesktopImages\fP, \fIgrabVideoFrames\fP, 
and \fIchooseRandomImages\fP options in the \fI~/.xscreensaver\fP
file; see
.BR xscreensaver\-settings (1)
for more details.
.SH OPTIONS
.I decayscreen
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-\-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-\-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP
Draw on the specified window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-mono 
If on a color display, pretend we're on a monochrome display.
.TP 8
.B \-\-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-\-delay \fImicroseconds\fP
Slow it down.
.TP 8
.B \-\-duration \fIseconds\fP
How long to run before loading a new image.  Default 120 seconds.
.TP 8
.B \-\-mode \fImode\fP
The direction in which the image should tend to slide.  Legal values are
\fIrandom\fP (meaning pick one), \fIup\fP, \fIleft\fP, \fIright\fP, 
\fIdown\fP, \fIupleft\fP, \fIdownleft\fP, \fIupright\fP, \fIdownright\fP, 
\fIshuffle\fP (meaning prefer no particular direction), \fIin\fP (meaning
move things toward the center), \fIout\fP (meaning move things away
from the center), \fImelt\fP (meaning melt straight 
downward),  \fIstretch\fP (meaning stretch the screen downward),
and \fIfuzz\fP (meaning go blurry instead of melty).
.TP 8
.B \-\-fps
Display the current frame rate and CPU load.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.TP 8
.B XSCREENSAVER_WINDOW
The window ID to use with \fI\-\-root\fP.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1),
.BR xscreensaver\-settings (1),
.BR xscreensaver\-getimage (MANSUFFIX)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992 by Vivek Khera.  Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, 
and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted
without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and
that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in 
supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the suitability
of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or
implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Vivek Khera <khera@cs.duke.edu>, 05-Aug-93; based on code by David Wald, 1988.
Modified by jwz, 28-Nov-1997.
Modified by Rick Schultz <rick@skapunx.net> 05-Apr-1999.
Modified by Vince Levey <vincel@vincel.org> 25-Oct-2001.
