.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
Eruption \- eruption of pieces of hot volcanic rock
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B Eruption
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-window]
[\-root]
[\-ncolors \fInumber\fP]
[\-nParticles \fInumber\fP]
[\-Heat \fInumber\fP]
[\-Cooling \fInumber\fP]
[\-Gravity \fInumber\fP]
[\-delay \fInumber\fP]
[\-cycles \fInumber\fP]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This hack creates an eruption of pieces of hot volcanic rock.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-ncolors \fInumber\fP
Number of Colors.  Default: 256.
.TP 8
.B \-particles \fInumber\fP
Number of Particles. Default: 300.
.TP 8
.B \-cooloff \fInumber\fP
Eruption Cooloff. Default: 2.
.TP 8
.B \-heat \fInumber\fP
Heat of Eruption. Default: 256.
.TP 8
.B \-gravity \fInumber\fP
Gravity. Default: 1.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 5000 (0.01 seconds.).
.TP 8
.B \-cycles \fInumber\fP
Duration.  10 - 3000.  Default: 80.
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate and CPU load.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1),
.br
https://demo-effects.sourceforge.net/
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2002-2003 by W.P. van Paassen.  Permission to use, copy,
modify, distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any
purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright
notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this
permission notice appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are
made about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided
"as is" without express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
W.P. van Paassen
