.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
euler2d - two dimensional incompressible inviscid fluid flow.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B euler2d
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-window]
[\-root]
[\-count \fInumber\fP]
[\-eulertail \fInumber\fP]
[\-cycles \fInumber\fP]
[\-ncolors \fInumber\fP]
[\-delay \fInumber\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Simulates two dimensional incompressible inviscid fluid flow.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-count \fInumber\fP
Particles.  2 - 5000.  Default: 1024.
.TP 8
.B \-eulertail \fInumber\fP
Trail Length.  2 - 500.  Default: 10.
.TP 8
.B \-cycles \fInumber\fP
Duration.  100 - 5000.	Default: 3000.
.TP 8
.B \-ncolors \fInumber\fP
Number of Colors.  Default: 64.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 10000 (0.01 seconds.).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2002 by Stephen Montgomery-Smith.  Permission to use,
copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its documentation
for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that the above
copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
No representations are made about the suitability of this software for
any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Stephen Montgomery-Smith.
