.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
fiberlamp - Fiber Optic Lamp
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fiberlamp
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-window]
[\-root]
[\-count \fInumber\fP]
[\-cycles \fInumber\fP]
[\-delay \fInumber\fP]
[\-ncolors \fInumber\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Displays a Fiber Optic Lamp.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-count \fInumber\fP
Number of Fibers.  10 - 500.  Default: 500.
.TP 8
.B \-cycles \fInumber\fP
Number of cycles before the lamp is knowcked sideways.  100 - 10000.
Default: 10000.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 10000 (0.01 seconds.).
.TP 8
.B \-ncolors \fInumber\fP
Number of Colors.  Default: 64.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2005 by Tim Auckland.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Tim Auckland.
