.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
fireworkx \- pyrotechnic explosions eye-candy.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fireworkx
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-window]
[\-root]
[\-verbose]
[\-noflash]
[\-shoot]
[\-delay \fInumber\fP]
[\-maxlife \fInumber\fP]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Animates explosions.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-noflash 
Turn off light flash effect. (Runs faster)
.TP 8
.B \-shoot
Fire shells up using mortar.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fInumber\fP
Delay between frames. In microseconds. (Default: 10000)
.TP 8
.B \-maxlife \fInumber\fP
Maximum decay period for an explosion. (Range: 0-100)
.TP 8
.B \-verbose
For scientific research purposes only..!
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate and CPU load.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1999-2013 by Rony B Chandran.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
 
.br
Written by Rony B Chandran <ronybc@gmail.com>
.br
 
.br
Additional programming and support: 
.br
--------------------------------------------------------------------
.br
Rugmini R Chandran <rugmini@ronybc.com>
.br
Renuka S <renuka@ronybc.com>
.br
Jean-Pierre Demailly <Jean-Pierre.Demailly@ujf-grenoble.fr>
.br
Nicholas Miell <nmiell@gmail.com>

.SH URL 
http://www.ronybc.com

