.TH XScreenSaver 1 "13-aug-92" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
flame - draw weird cosmic fractals
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B flame
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-foreground \fIcolor\fP] [\-background \fIcolor\fP] [\-window] [\-root] [\-mono] [\-install] [\-visual \fIvisual\fP] [\-ncolors \fIinteger\fP] [\-iterations \fIinteger\fP] [\-points \fIinteger\fP] [\-delay \fImicroseconds\fP] [\-delay2 \fImicroseconds\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIflame\fP program generates colorful fractal displays.
.SH OPTIONS
.I flame
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-mono 
If on a color display, pretend we're on a monochrome display.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-ncolors \fIinteger\fP
How many colors should be used (if possible).  Default 128.
The colors used cycle through the hue, making N stops around 
the color wheel.
.TP 8
.B \-iterations \fIinteger\fP
How many fractals to generate.  Default 25.
.TP 8
.B \-points \fIinteger\fP
How many pixels to draw for each fractal.  Default 10000.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fImicroseconds\fP
How long we should wait between drawing each fractal.  Default 50000,
or about 1/20th second.
.TP 8
.B \-delay2 \fImicroseconds\fP
How long we should wait before clearing the screen when each run ends.
Default 2000000, or two seconds.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1),
.BR xlock (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1991 by Patrick J. Naughton

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation. 
.SH AUTHOR
Scott Graves <spot@cs.cmu.edu>, 06-Jun-91.n

Ability to run standalone or with \fIxscreensaver\fP added by 
Jamie Zawinski <jwz@mcom.com>, 18-Oct-93.
