.TH XScreenSaver 1 "30-Oct-99" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
fontglide - characters float onto the screen to form words
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fontglide
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-window] [\-root] [\-install]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP] 
[\-delay \fIusecs\fP] 
[\-scroll\fP] 
[\-page\fP] 
[\-random\fP] 
[\-speed \fIfloat\fP] 
[\-linger \fIfloat\fP] 
[\-program \fIsh-command\fP]
[\-font \fIfont-name\fP]
[\-bw \fIint\fP]
[\-trails]
[\-db]
[\-debug]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIfontglide\fP program reads text from a subprocess and puts it on
the screen using large characters that glide in from the edges,
assemble, then disperse.  Alternately, it can simply scroll whole 
sentences from right to left.
.SH OPTIONS
.I fontglide
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fIusecs\fP
The delay between steps of the animation, in microseconds: default 10000.
.TP 8
.B \-page
With this option, a page full of text will glide in, and disperse.
.TP 8
.B \-scroll
With this option, sentences will scroll by from right to left.
.TP 8
.B \-random
The default is to pick randomly between \fI\-page\fP and  \fI\-scroll\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-speed \fIfloat\fP
How fast to animate; 2 means twice as fast, 0.5 means half as fast.
Default 1.0.
.TP 8
.B \-linger \fIfloat\fP
How long to leave the assembled text on the screen in \fI\-page\fP mode;
2 means twice as long, 0.5 means half as long.  Default 1.0.  (The more
words there are on the screen, the longer it lingers.)
.TP 8
.B \-program \fIsh-command\fP
The command to run to generate the text to display.  This option may be
any string acceptable to /bin/sh.  The program will be run at the end of
a pipe, and any words that it prints to \fIstdout\fP will end up on
the window.  (Whitespace and line breaks are ignored.)  If the program 
exits, it will be launched again after we have processed all the text
it produced.  Default:
.BR xscreensaver-text (1).
.TP 8
.B \-font\fP \fIstring\fP
The base font pattern to use when loading fonts.  The default is to search
for any Latin1 scalable proportional fonts on the system.  Once a base font
is selected, it will be loaded in a random size.
.TP 8
.B \-bw \fIint\fP
How thick an outline to draw around the characters.  Default 2 pixels.
.TP 8
.B \-trails\fP
Leave "vapor trails" behind the moving text.  Default off.
.TP 8
.B \-no-db\fP
Turn off double-buffering.  It may be faster, but will flicker.
.TP 8
.B \-debug\fP
Draw some boxes showing character metrics, and print the name of the
current font to stderr.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xscreensaver (1),
.BR xscreensaver-text (1),
.BR fortune (1),
.BR phosphor (MANSUFFIX),
.BR apple2 (MANSUFFIX),
.BR starwars (MANSUFFIX),
.BR ljlatest (MANSUFFIX),
.BR dadadodo (1),
.BR webcollage (MANSUFFIX),
.BR driftnet (1)
.BR EtherPEG ,
.BR EtherPeek
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2003 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski <jwz@jwz.org>, 15-Sep-2003.
