.TH XScreenSaver 1 "12-May-04" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
fuzzyflakes \- falling snowflakes/flower shapes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fuzzyflakes
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-foreground \fIcolor\fP]
[\-background \fIcolor\fP] [\-window] [\-root] [\-mono] [\-install]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP] 
[\-delay \fIusecs\fP]
[\-speed \fIint\fP]
[\-arms \fIint\fP]
[\-thickness \fIint\fP]
[\-bthickness \fIint\fP]
[\-radius \fIint\fP]
[\-layers \fIint\fP]
[\-density \fIint\fP]
[\-no-db]
(\-color \fIstring\fP)
(\-random-colors)
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I fuzzyflakes
program draws falling pastel colored snowflake/flower shapes.
Inspired by the credits of the anime "Azumanga Daioh".
.SH OPTIONS
.I fuzzyflakes
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-mono 
If on a color display, pretend we're on a monochrome display.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fIusecs\fP
The delay between steps of the animation, in microseconds.  Default: 250000.
.TP 8
.B \-speed \fIint\fP
How fast, 1-50.  Default 10.
.TP 8
.B \-arms \fIint\fP
How many arms on the flakes; default 5.
.TP 8
.B \-thickness \fIint\fP
How thick to make the lines; default 10 pixels.
.TP 8
.B \-bthickness \fIint\fP
How thick to make the borders; default 3 pixels.
.TP 8
.B \-radius \fIint\fP
Radius of the objects; default 20 pixels.
.TP 8
.B \-layers \fIint\fP
How many layers of objects; default 3.
.TP 8
.B \-density \fIint\fP
Default 5.
.TP 8
.B \-no-db
Disable double-buffering.
.TP 8
.B \-color \fIstring\fP
The base color for the color scheme.  Typed as a hexadecimal triplet
with or with out the leading #. ie. fa4563 & #43cd12 are both acceptable.
If the saturation of you color is too low (<0.03) the random color
generator will kick in.
The default color is #efbea5
.TP 8
.B \-random-colors
This enables the random color generation.  It is disabled by default.
It overrides anything from -color
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate and CPU load.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2004 Barry Dmytro.  Permission to use, copy, modify,
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any
purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that the above
copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
No representations are made about the suitability of this software for
any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Barry Dmytro <badcherry@mailc.net>
.SH CREDITS
The color generation algorithm was borrowed from a friend <ZoeB>
from #vegans@irc.blitzed.org.  Her site was [REDACTED].
To see her original code in action visit her site.
