.TH XScreenSaver 1 "11-Jun-97" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
goop - squishy transparent oil and bubble screenhack
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B goop
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-foreground \fIcolor\fP] [\-background \fIcolor\fP] [\-window] [\-root] [\-mono] [\-install] [\-visual \fIvisual\fP] [\-transparent] [\-non\-transparent] [\-additive] [\-subtractive] [\-xor] [\-no\-xor]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIgoop\fP program draws a simulation of bubbles in layers of 
overlapping multicolored translucent fluid.
.SH OPTIONS
.I goop
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-mono 
If on a color display, pretend we're on a monochrome display.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-count \fIinteger\fP
How many bubbles to draw per layer.  Default: random.
.TP 8
.B \-layers \fIinteger\fP
How many layers to draw.  Default: random, based on screen depth.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fImicroseconds\fP
How much of a delay should be introduced between steps of the animation.
Default 100000, or about 1/10th second.
.TP 8
.B \-transparent
If \fI\-layers\fP is greater than 1, then each layer will be drawn in one
color, and when they overlap, the colors will be mixed. This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-non\-transparent
Turns off \fI\-transparent\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-additive
If \fI\-transparent\fP is specified, then this option means that the colors
will be mixed using an additive color model, as if the blobs were projected
light.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-subtractive
If \fI\-transparent\fP is specified, then this option means that the
colors will be mixed using a subtractive color model, as if the blobs were
translucent filters.
.TP 8
.B \-xor
Draw with xor instead of the other color tricks.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1997 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski <jwz@jwz.org>, 11-Jun-97.
