.TH XScreenSaver 1 "12-Jun-97" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
halo \- draw circular patterns
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B halo
[\-\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-\-foreground \fIcolor\fP]
[\-\-background \fIcolor\fP] [\-\-window] [\-\-root]
[\-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP][\-\-mono] [\-\-install] [\-\-visual \fIvisual\fP] [\-\-count \fIint\fP] [\-\-delay \fIusecs\fP] [\-\-mode seuss | ramp | random ] [\-\-animate] [\-\-colors \fIinteger\fP] 
[\-\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIhalo\fP program draws cool patterns based on circles.
.SH OPTIONS
.I halo
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-\-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-\-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP
Draw on the specified window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-mono 
If on a color display, pretend we're on a monochrome display.
.TP 8
.B \-\-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-\-count \fIinteger\fP
How many circles to draw.  Default 0, meaning random.
.TP 8
.B \-\-mode "seuss | ramp | random"
In \fIseuss\fP mode, alternating striped curves will be drawn.

In \fIramp\fP mode, a color ramp will be drawn.

\fIrandom\fP means pick the mode randomly.
.TP 8
.B \-\-delay \fImicroseconds\fP
How much of a delay should be introduced between steps of the animation.
Default 100000, or about 0.1 second.
.TP 8
.B \-\-colors \fIinteger\fP
How many colors to use.  Default 100.
.TP 8
.B \-\-animate
If specified, then the centerpoints of the circles will bounce around.
Otherwise, the circles will be drawn once, erased, and a new set of
circles will be drawn.
.TP 8
.B \-\-fps
Display the current frame rate and CPU load.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.TP 8
.B XSCREENSAVER_WINDOW
The window ID to use with \fI\-\-root\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1993 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski <jwz@jwz.org>, 6-jul-93.
