.TH XScreenSaver 1 "18-sep-97" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
helix - draw helical string-art patterns
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B helix
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-foreground \fIcolor\fP] [\-background \fIcolor\fP] [\-window] [\-root] [\-mono] [\-erase\-speed \fIusecs\fP] [\-erase\-mode \fIinteger\fP] [\-delay \fIseconds\fP] [\-install] [\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIhelix\fP program draws interesting patterns composed of line segments
in random colors.
.SH OPTIONS
.I helix
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-mono 
If on a color display, pretend we're on a monochrome display.
.TP 8
.B \-erase\-speed \fIusecs\fP
This controls the speed at which the screen will be erased. Lower numbers 
erase faster.
.TP 8
.B \-erase\-mode \fIinteger\fP
This sets the erase mode. Mode \-1 chooses a random mode each time. There
are currently 6 modes defined (0\-5).
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fIseconds\fP
This sets the number of seconds that the helix will be on the screen.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1992 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski <jwz@netscape.com>, 13-aug-92.
Screen eraser improved by Johannes Keukelaar <johannes@nada.kth.se>, 
 18-sep-97.
