.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
hexadrop - shrinking hexagons.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hexadrop
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-window]
[\-root]
[\-delay \fInumber\fP]
[\-speed \fInumber\fP]
[\-size \fInumber\fP]
[\-sides \fInumber\fP]
[\-uniform-speed]
[\-no-uniform-speed]
[\-lockstep]
[\-no-lockstep]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Draws a grid of hexagons or other shapes and drops them out.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 30000 (0.03 seconds.).
.TP 8
.B \-speed \fInumber\fP
Speed. 0.5 for half as fast; 2.0 for twice as fast.
.TP 8
.B \-size \fInumber\fP
How many tiles to fit horizontally on the screen.  Default 15.
.TP 8
.B \-sides \fInumber\fP
Shape of the tiles. 3, 4, 6 or 8. Default: random.
.TP 8
.B \-uniform-speed | \-no-uniform-speed
Whether each tile should drop at the same speed. Default: random.
.TP 8
.B \-lockstep | \-no-lockstep
Whether each tile should drop at the same time. Default: random.
.TP 8
.B \-fps | \-no-fps
Whether to show a frames-per-second display at the bottom of the screen.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2013 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski.
