.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
hyperball \- 2d projection of a 4d object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hyperball
[\-\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-\-foreground \fIcolor\fP]
[\-\-background \fIcolor\fP]
[\-\-xy \fIfloat\fP]
[\-\-xz \fIfloat\fP]
[\-\-yz \fIfloat\fP]
[\-\-xw \fIfloat\fP]
[\-\-yw \fIfloat\fP]
[\-\-zw \fIfloat\fP]
[\-\-delay \fIusecs\fP]
[\-\-window]
[\-\-root]
[\-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-mono]
[\-\-install]
[\-\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIhyperball\fP program displays a wireframe projection of a hyperball
which is rotating at user-specified rates around any or all of its four axes.
.SH OPTIONS
.I hyperball
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-\-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-\-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP
Draw on the specified window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-mono 
If on a color display, pretend we're on a monochrome display.
.TP 8
.B \-\-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-\-delay \fImicroseconds\fP
How much of a delay should be introduced between steps of the animation.
Default 20000, or about 0.02 seconds.
.TP 8
.B \-\-xw \fIfloat\fP
.TP 8
.B \-\-xy \fIfloat\fP
.TP 8
.B \-\-xz \fIfloat\fP
.TP 8
.B \-\-yw \fIfloat\fP
.TP 8
.B \-\-yz \fIfloat\fP
.TP 8
.B \-\-zw \fIfloat\fP
The amount that the ball should be rotated around the specified axis at
each frame of the animation, expressed in 0.001 radians.  These should be small
floating-point values (less than 50 works best.)  Default: xy=3,
xz=5, yw=10.
.TP 8
.B \-\-fps
Display the current frame rate and CPU load.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.TP 8
.B XSCREENSAVER_WINDOW
The window ID to use with \fI\-\-root\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2000 by Joe Keane.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Joe Keane <jgk@jgk.org>
