.TH XScreenSaver 1 "17-May-97" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
imsmap - generate fractal maps
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B imsmap
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-foreground \fIcolor\fP] [\-background \fIcolor\fP] [\-window] [\-root] [\-mono] [\-install] [\-visual \fIvisual\fP] [\-ncolors \fIint\fP] [\-delay \fIseconds\fP] [\-iterations \fIint\fP] [\-mode h|s|v|random] [\-cycle] [\-no\-cycle]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIimsmap\fP program generates map or cloud-like patterns.  It looks
quite different in monochrome and color.
.SH OPTIONS
.I imsmap
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-mono 
If on a color display, pretend we're on a monochrome display.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-ncolors \fIinteger\fP
How many colors to use.  Default 50.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fIinteger\fP
How long to delay between images.  Default 10 seconds.
.TP 8
.B \-iterations \fIinteger\fP
A measure of the resolution of the resultant image, from 0 to 7.  Default 7.
.TP 8
.B \-mode [ hue | saturation | value | random ]
The axis upon which colors should be interpolated between the foreground
and background color.  Default random.  
.TP 8
.B \-cycle
.TP 8
.B \-no\-cycle
Whether to do colormap cycling.  Default is to cycle.
.TP 8
.B \-cycle\-delay
Number of microseconds between shifts of the colormap; default 100000,
or 1/10th second.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Juergen Nickelsen <nickel@cs.tu-berlin.de>, 23-aug-92.

Hacked on by Jamie Zawinski <jwz@netscape.com>, 24-aug-92, 17-May-97.
