.TH Intermomentary 1 "08-Oct-04" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
intermomentary \- Visualize the momentary and aggregate intersections 
between slowly moving circles.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B intermomentary
[\-\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-\-window]
[\-\-root]
[\-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-foreground \fIcolor\fP]
[\-\-background \fIcolor\fP]
[\-\-num\-discs \fIdisc count\fP]
[\-\-draw\-delay \fIdelayms\fP]
[\-\-max\-riders \fImaxr\fP]
[\-\-max\-radius \fImaxradius\fP]
[\-\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Intersection Momentary is a fun visualization defining the relationships 
between objects with Casey Reas, William Ngan, and Robert Hodgin. Commissioned 
for display at the Whitney Museum of American Art.

A surface filled with 100 medium to small sized circles. Each circle has a 
different size and direction, but moves at the same slow rate. Display:

    A. The instantaneous intersections of the circles.
    B. The aggregate intersections of the circles.

The circles begin with a radius of 1 pixel and slowly increase to some
arbitrary size.  Circles are drawn with small moving points along the
perimeter. The intersections are rendered as glowing orbs.  Glowing
orbs are rendered only when a perimeter point moves past the
intersection point.
.SH OPTIONS
Intermomentary accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-\-num\-discs \fIdisc count\fP (Default: \fI85\fP)
Number of slowly moving and growing discs to use.  The more discs, 
the more CPU power.
.TP 8
.B \-\-draw\-delay \fIdelayms\fP (Default: \fI30000\fP)
Delay in ms between drawing cycles.  More delay, slower (but smoother 
and less CPU intensive.)
art.
.TP 8
.B \-\-max\-riders \fImaxrider\fP (Default: \fI40\fP)
Maximum number of 'riders', single dots moving around the edge of the discs.
.TP 8
.B \-\-max\-radius \fImaxradius\fP (Default: \fI100\fP)
Maximum possible radius of a disc.
.TP 8
.B \-\-fps
Display the current frame rate and CPU load.
.TP 8
.B \-\-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-\-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP
Draw on the specified window.
.SH BUGS
Setting the background to anything besides black confuses the intensity 
algorithm and will look terrible.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global
resources stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.TP 8
.B XSCREENSAVER_WINDOW
The window ID to use with \fI\-\-root\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2003 by J. Tarbell <complex@complexification.net>.
.br
XScreenSaver port: Mike Kershaw <dragorn@kismetwireless.net>
.SH AUTHOR
J. Tarbell <complex@complexification.net>, Jun 2003.
.br
Mike Kershaw <dragorn@kismetwireless.net>, Oct 2004.
