.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
interference \- decaying sinusoidal waves
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B interference
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-window]
[\-root]
[\-count \fInumber\fP]
[\-gridsize \fInumber\fP]
[\-delay \fInumber\fP]
[\-speed \fInumber\fP]
[\-radius \fInumber\fP]
[\-ncolors \fInumber\fP]
[\-color-shift \fInumber\fP]
[\-hue \fInumber\fP]
[\-no-db]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Another color-field hack, this one works by computing decaying sinusoidal
waves, and allowing them to interfere with each other as their origins
move.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-count \fInumber\fP
Number of Waves.  0 - 20.  Default: 3.
.TP 8
.B \-gridsize \fInumber\fP
Magnification.	1 - 20.  Default: 2.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 30000 (0.03 seconds.).
.TP 8
.B \-speed \fInumber\fP
Wave Speed.  1 - 100.  Default: 30.
.TP 8
.B \-radius \fInumber\fP
Wave Size.  50 - 1500.	Default: 800.
.TP 8
.B \-ncolors \fInumber\fP
Number of Colors.  Default: 192.
.TP 8
.B \-color-shift \fInumber\fP
Color Contrast.  0 - 100.  Default: 60.
.TP 8
.B \-hue \fInumber\fP
Hue of the base color (0-360, as in HSV space.)  Default 0, meaning random.
.TP 8
.B \-db | \-no-db
Whether to double buffer.
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate and CPU load.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2002 by Hannu Mallat.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Hannu Mallat.
