.TH XScreenSaver 1 "28-May-97" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
julia - draws spinning, animating julia-set fractals
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B julia
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-foreground \fIcolor\fP] [\-background \fIcolor\fP] [\-window] [\-root] [\-mono] [\-install] [\-visual \fIvisual\fP] [\-ncolors \fIinteger\fP] [\-delay \fImicroseconds\fP] [\-cycles \fIinteger\fP] [\-count \fIinteger\fP] [\-mouse] [\-nomouse]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIjulia\fP program draws spinning, animating julia-set fractals.

It uses ifs {w0 = sqrt(x-c), w1 = -sqrt(x-c)} with random iteration 
to plot the julia set, and sinusoidially varied parameters for the set,
and plots parameters with a circle.

One thing to note is that count is the \fIdepth\fP of the search tree,
so the number of points computed is (2^count)-1.  I use 8 or 9 on a
dx266 and it looks okay.  The sinusoidal variation of the parameter
might not be as interesting as it could, but it still gives an idea 
of the effect of the parameter.

.SH OPTIONS
.I julia
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-mono 
If on a color display, pretend we're on a monochrome display.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-ncolors \fIinteger\fP
How many colors should be used (if possible).  Default 200.
The colors used cycle through the hue, making N stops around
the color wheel.
.TP 8
.B \-cycles \fIinteger\fP

.TP 8
.B \-count \fIinteger\fP

.TP 8
.B \-mouse
.TP 8
.B \-nomouse
If \fI\-mouse\fP is specified, the control point of the Julia set will
be derived from the position of the mouse in the window.  When the mouse
is not in the window, the control point is chosen the normal way.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1),
.BR xlock (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1995 by Sean McCullough.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation. 
.SH AUTHOR
Sean McCullough <bankshot@mailhost.nmt.edu>, 1995.

Ability to run standalone or with \fIxscreensaver\fP added by 
Jamie Zawinski <jwz@jwz.org>, 10-May-97.
