.TH Kaleidescpe 1 "14-Dec-95" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
Kaleidescope \- rotating line segments
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kaleidescope
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-foreground \fIcolor\fP] [\-background \fIcolor\fP] [\-window] [\-root] [\-install] [\-visual \fIvisual\fP] [\-color_mode \fImono | nice | greedy\fP] [-nsegments \fIint\fP] [\-ntrails \fIint\fP] [\-local_rotation \fIint\fP] [\-global_rotation \fIint\fP] [\-delay \fIusecs\fP] [\-redmin \fIint\fP] [\-greenmin \fIint\fP] [\-bluemin \fIint\fP] [\-redrange \fIint\fP] [\-greenrange \fIint\fP] [\-bluerange \fIint\fP]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIkaleidescope\fP program draws line segments in a symmetric pattern
that evolves over time. 
.SH OPTIONS
.I kaleidescope
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-color_mode "mono | nice | greedy"
Specify how kaleidescope uses colors. Mono uses
just the default foreground and background colors. Nice uses one
color for each segment (specified by nsegments). Greedy uses (ntrails * nsegments) + 1  colors.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-nsegments integer
The number of segments to draw. Default is 7.
.TP 8
.B \-ntrails integer
The number of trails to draw. Default is 100.
.TP 8
.B \-local_rotation integer
The rate at which segments rotate around their center. Default is -59.
.TP 8
.B \-global_rotation integer 
The rate at which segments rotate around the center of the window.
Default is 1. 
.TP 8
.B \-redmin, \-greenmin, \-bluemin, \-redrange, \-greenrange, \-bluerange
All take an integer argument. When colors are randomly chosen, they 
are chosen from the interval min to min plus range. The minimums default
to 30000. The ranges default to 20000. 
.TP 8
.B \-delay microseconds
How much of a delay should be introduced between steps of the animation.
Default is 20000, or about 5 frames a second.
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate and CPU load.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR kaleidescope (MANSUFFIX)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1997 by Ron Tapia.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Ron Tapia <tapia@nmia.com>, 20-Mar-97.

