.de EX		\"Begin example
.ne 5
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp .5
.nf
.in +.5i
..
.de EE
.fi
.in -.5i
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp .5
..
.TH XScreenSaver 1 "17-Jun-99" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
ljlatest - prints the most recent public posts on livejournal.com.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ljlatest
[\--verbose]
[\--count \fIN\fP]
[\--columns \fIN\fP]
[\--images]
[\fIurl\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIljlatest\fP script reads the most recent public posts made to
livejournal.com, and prints them on stdout, after doing a rudimentary
conversion of HTML to plain text.

This is intended as a replacement for
.BR fortune (1)
for use with those
.BR xscreensaver (1)
programs that run an external program to generate text.  For example:
.EX
phosphor -scale 2 -program 'ljlatest --cols 40'
starwars -program ljlatest
.EE
.SH OPTIONS
.I ljlatest
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-\-count \fIN\fP
How many entries to print; the default is to print all that are available
in the LiveJournal RSS file (a few hundred.)
.TP 8
.B \-\-columns \fIN\fP or \-\-cols \fIN\fP
Where to wrap lines; default 72 columns.
.TP 8
.B \-\-images
Instead of printing the plain text of the recent entries, print HTML of all
of the inlined images in the recent entries.  Using this option, you can
create an HTML page of images recently posted to LiveJournal.
.TP 8
.B \-\-verbose \fRor\fP \-v
Print diagnostics to stderr.  Multiple \fI-v\fP switches increase the
amount of output.
.TP 8
.B \fIurl\fP
Which URL to load; default:
    http://www.livejournal.com/stats/latest-rss.bml
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B http_proxy\fR or \fPHTTP_PROXY
to get the default HTTP proxy host and port.
.SH BUGS
This program makes it seem like morons have invaded your screen saver.

The output is always ISO-8859-1, regardless of locale.
.SH SEE ALSO
.I http://www.livejournal.com/,
.BR xscreensaver (1),
.BR fortune (1),
.BR phosphor (1),
.BR starwars (1),
.BR dadadodo (1),
.BR webcollage (1),
.BR driftnet (1)
.BR EtherPEG ,
.BR EtherPeek
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2003 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy, modify,
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski <jwz@jwz.org>, 30-Aug-2003.
