.TH LMORPH 1 "xscreensaver hack"
.SH NAME
lmorph \- morphing lines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lmorph
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-foreground \fIcolor\fP] [\-background \fIcolor\fP] [\-window] [\-root] [\-mono] [\-install] [\-visual \fIvisual\fP] [\-points \fIint\fP] [\-steps \fIint\fP] [\-delay \fIusecs\fP] [\-figtype \fItype\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIlmorph\fP program generates random spline-ish line drawings and
morphs between them.
.SH OPTIONS
.I lmorph
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window. This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-mono 
If on a color display, pretend we're on a monochrome display.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use. Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-points \fIinteger\fP
Number of points in each line drawing. Default is 200 points.
.TP 8
.B \-steps \fIinteger\fP
Interpolation steps from one drawing to the next. Default is 150. You
may specify 0, to get a random number between 100 and 500.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fImicroseconds\fP
How much of a delay should be introduced between steps of the animation.
Default 70000.
.TP 8
.B \-figtype \fItype\fP
Limit the figures to only open or closed figures. Possible types are
"all" (default), "open" and "closed".
.TP 8
.B \-linewidth \fIinteger\fP
Width of lines. Default is 5 pixels.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Sverre H. Huseby <sverrehu@online.no> and Glenn T. Lines <glennli@ifi.uio.no>,
built on top of the screen saver routines by Jamie Zawinski <jwz@jwz.org>.
