.TH XScreenSaver 1 "14-Aug-2004" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
memscroller - scrolls a dump of its own RAM across the screen
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B memscroller
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-window] [\-root] [\-mono] [\-install] [\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-font \fIfont\fP]
[\-delay \fIint\fP]
[\-mono | -color]
[\-ram | -random | \-filename \fIfile\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fImemscroller\fP program scrolls a dump of its own process memory
across the screen in three windows at three different rates.
.SH OPTIONS
.I memscroller
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-color
Render each three bytes of memory as R, G, B.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-mono 
Render each byte of memory in shades of green.
.TP 8
.B \-ram
Read from the process's address space.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-random
Instead of reading from memory, generate random numbers.
.TP 8
.B \-filename \fIfile\fP
Instead of reading from memory, read from the given file until EOF, then
re-open it.  If you have permission, /dev/mem is an interesting choice here.
(Note that /dev/null won't ever display anything, because it returns EOF
without ever returning any data.)
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fImicroseconds\fP
How much of a delay should be introduced between steps of the animation.
Default 100000, or about 1/10th second.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2004 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski <jwz@jwz.org>, 14-Aug-2004.
