.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
MetaBalls.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B MetaBalls
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-window]
[\-root]
[\-ncolors \fInumber\fP]
[\-count \fInumber\fP]
[\-delay \fInumber\fP]
[\-cycles \fInumber\fP]
[\-radius \fInumber\fP]
[\-delta \fInumber\fP]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This hack draws 2D metaballs to the screen by calculating the sum of the colors of all metaballs covering a pixel. 
Ported from the demo effects collection (http://demo-effects.sourceforge.net)
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-ncolors \fInumber\fP
Number of Colors.  Default: 256.
.TP 8
.B \-count \fInumber\fP
Number of MetaBalls.	2 - 255.  Default: 10.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 5000 (0.005 seconds.).
.TP 8
.B \-cycles \fInumber\fP
Duration.  100 - 3000.  Default: 1000.
.TP 8
.B \-radius \fInumber\fP
MetaBall Radius.  2 - 100.  Default: 100.
.TP 8
.B \-delta \fInumber\fP
MetaBall Movement.  1 - 20.  Default: 3.
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate and CPU load.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2002-2003 by W.P. van Paassen.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
	suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
W.P. van Paassen
