.TH XScreenSaver 1 "27-Apr-97" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
moire - draw circular interference patterns
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B moire
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-foreground \fIcolor\fP] [\-background \fIcolor\fP] [\-window] [\-root] [\-mono] [\-install] [\-visual \fIvisual\fP] [\-delay \fIseconds\fP] [\-random \fIboolean\fP] [\-ncolors \fIint\fP] [\-offset \fIint\fP] 
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fImoire\fP program draws cool circular interference patterns.
.SH OPTIONS
.I moire
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-mono 
If on a color display, pretend we're on a monochrome display.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fIseconds\fP
How long to wait before starting over.  Default 5 seconds.
.TP 8
.B \-random \fIboolean\fP
Whether to ignore the foreground/background colors, and pick them randomly
instead.
.TP 8
.B \-offset \fIinteger\fP
The maximum random radius increment to use.
.TP 8
.B \-ncolors \fIinteger\fP
How many colors should be allocated in the color ramp (note that this
value interacts with \fIoffset\fP.)
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate and CPU load.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1997 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski <jwz@jwz.org>, 27-Apr-97, based on code by
Michael D. Bayne <mdb@go2net.com>.
