.TH XScreenSaver 1 "20-Mar-2001" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
nerverot \- induces edginess in the viewer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nerverot
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-foreground \fIcolor\fP] [\-background \fIcolor\fP] [\-window] [\-root] [\-mono] [\-install] [\-visual \fIvisual\fP] [\-db] [\-no\-db] [\-colors \fIinteger\fP] [\-delay \fImicroseconds\fP] [\-count \fIinteger\fP] [\-line\-width \fIinteger\fP] [\-event\-chance \fIfraction\fP] [\-iter\-amt \fIfraction\fP] [\-nervousness \fIfraction\fP] [\-max\-nerve\-radius \fIfraction\fP] [\-min\-radius \fIinteger\fP] [\-max\-radius \fIinteger\fP] [\-min\-scale \fIfraction\fP] [\-max\-scale \fIfraction\fP]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The goal of \fInerverot\fP is to be interesting and compelling to
watch, yet induce a state of nervous edginess in the viewer. This manpage
describes v1.3 of the program.
.SH OPTIONS
.I nerverot
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-mono 
If on a color display, pretend we're on a monochrome display.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-db
.B \-no\-db
Use double-buffering (or not, respectively). Double-buffering may make 
things look better for larger line widths and/or larger numbers of
blots, but "better" may equate to yielding less of the desired edginess
effect. You'll be calmer after watching the double-buffered variant;
you're more likely to go into epileptic fits with it off. Hence, it
is off (false) by default, resource \fIdoubleBuffer\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-colors \fIinteger\fP
How many colors should be used (if possible). The colors
form a smooth ramp between two randomly-chosen colors. Defaults to 4,
resource \fIcolors\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fImicroseconds\fP
The interframe delay, in microseconds. Defaults to 10000, resource
\fIdelay\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-max\-iters \fIinteger\fP
The maximum number of iterations (frames) before a new model is
generated. The actual number of iterations per model is a random number
between 1 and this value. Defaults to 1200, resource
\fImaxIters\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-count \fIinteger\fP
How many "blots" to draw at a time. This number may be rounded down to
fit the particularly chosen model, and has a fixed minimum per-model.
Defaults to 250, resource \fIcount\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-line\-width \fIinteger\fP
The width of the lines to draw. 0 means an optimized pixel-thick line.
Defaults to 0, resource \fIlineWidth\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-event\-chance \fIfraction\fP
The chance, per iteration, for a life-altering event to occur (such as
picking a new rotation target), in the range 0..1. Defaults to 0.2,
resource \fIeventChance\fP.
.TP 8 
.B \-iter\-amt \fIfraction\fP
The fraction of movement towards a target (such as rotation angle or scale)
that happens per iteration, in the range 0..1. Defaults to 0.01,
resource \fIiterAmt\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-nervousness \fIfraction\fP
How nervous the drawing is, in the range 0..1. This is how jumpy the points
on each blot are. Defaults to 0.3, resource \fInervousness\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-max\-nerve\-radius \fIfraction\fP
The maximum radius of blot nervousness, as a fraction of the radius of the
blot, in the range 0..1. Defaults to 0.7, resource \fImaxNerveRadius\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-min\-radius \fIinteger\fP
The minimum radius for a blot, in the range 1..100. Defaults to 3,
resource \fIminRadius\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-max\-radius \fIinteger\fP
The maximum radius for a blot, in the range 1..100. Defaults to 25,
resource \fImaxRadius\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-min\-scale \fIfraction\fP
The minimum overall scale of drawing, as a fraction of
\fImin(windowHeight,windowWidth)\fP, in the range 0..10. Defaults to 0.6,
resource \fIminScale\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-max\-scale \fIfraction\fP
The maximum overall scale of drawing, as a fraction of
\fImin(windowHeight,windowWidth)\fP, in the range 0..10. Defaults to 1.75,
resource \fImaxScale\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate and CPU load.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH X RESOURCES
There are resource equivalents for each option, noted above.
.SH BUGS
.I nerverot
should have more models.
.TP 8
XDBE should be detected and used, if available.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2000-2001 by Dan Bornstein. All rights reserved.

Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
documentation. No representations are made about the suitability of this
software for any purpose. It is provided "as is" without express or 
implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Dan Bornstein <danfuzz@milk.com>.
