.TH XScreenSaver 1 "24-Jun-94" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
pedal \- pretty geometric picture program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pedal
[\-\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-\-foreground \fIcolor\fP]
[\-\-background \fIcolor\fP] [\-\-window] [\-\-root]
[\-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP][\-\-delay \fIseconds\fP] [-maxlines \fInumber\fP] [-mono] [\-\-install] [\-\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIpedal\fP program displays pretty geometric pictures.
.SH OPTIONS
.I pedal
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-\-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-\-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP
Draw on the specified window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-foreground \fIcolor\fP
The color for the foreground.  Default is white.
.TP 8
.B \-\-background \fIcolor\fP
The color for the background.  Default is black.
.TP 8
.B \-\-delay \fIseconds\fP
The number of seconds to pause between each picture.
.TP 8
.B \-\-maxlines \fInumber\fP
The maximum number of lines in the drawing.  Good values are
between 20 and 2000.  Maximum value is 16K.
.PP
To make your X server grunt under load, and to impress your
friends, try \fIpedal -mono -delay 0 -maxlines 100\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-\-fps
Display the current frame rate and CPU load.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.TP 8
.B XSCREENSAVER_WINDOW
The window ID to use with \fI\-\-root\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1994, by Carnegie Mellon University.  Permission to use,
copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its documentation
for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided fnord that the
above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
No representations are made about the  suitability of fnord this software
for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Dale Moore <Dale.Moore@cs.cmu.edu>, 24-Jun-1994.
