.TH XScreenSaver 1 "18-Jun-01" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
penetrate \- simulates a classic arcade shooting game
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B penetrate
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-root] [\-window]
[\-install] [\-noinstall] [\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-bgrowth \fImicroseconds\fP] [\-lrate \fInumber\fP] [\-smart \fInumber\fP]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIPenetrate\fP simulates the arcade classic with the cities and the stuff
shooting down from the sky and stuff.  The computer plays against itself,
desperately defending the forces of good against those thingies raining
down.  Bonus cities are awarded at ever-increasing intervals.  Every five
levels appears a bonus round.  The computer player gets progressively
more intelligent as the game progresses.  Better aim, more economical with
ammo, and better target selection.  Points are in the bottom right, and
high score is in the bottom left.  Start with -smart to have the computer
player skip the learning process.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP
Specifies which X display we should use.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-noinstall
Don't install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual
class, or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
Possible choices include

.RS
default, best, mono, monochrome, gray, grey, color, staticgray, staticcolor, 
truecolor, grayscale, greyscale, pseudocolor, directcolor, \fInumber\fP

If a decimal or hexadecimal number is used, 
.BR XGetVisualInfo (3X)
is consulted to obtain the required visual.
.RE
.TP 8
.B \-foreground \fIcolor\fP
Specifies the default foreground color.
.TP 8
.B \-background \fIcolor\fP
Specifies the default background color.
.TP 8
.B \-bgrowth \fIinteger\fP
Specifies the growth rate of the bomb explosions.
.TP 8
.B \-lrate \fIinteger\fP
Set the initial rate of laser fire.
.TP 8
.B -smart
Have the computer player skip the learning process.
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate and CPU load.
.SH BUGS
The layout of the screen isn't quite the same as the game this program
tries to emulate.  In this this program, the missiles come out of the
cities; when really, there are supposed to be three missile bases on
hills, with the cities in the valleys between them.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1999 Adam Miller.  Permission to use, copy, modify,
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Adam Miller <adum@aya.yale.edu>, 1999.
