.de EX		\"Begin example
.ne 5
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp .5
.nf
.in +.5i
..
.de EE
.fi
.in -.5i
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp .5
..
.TH XScreenSaver 1 "5-May-2004" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
phosphor \- simulates an old terminal with long-sustain phosphor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B phosphor
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-window] [\-root] [\-install]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP] [\-font \fIfont\fP] [\-scale \fIint\fP]
[\-ticks \fIint\fP] [\-delay \fIusecs\fP] [\-program \fIcommand\fP]
[\-meta] [\-esc] [\-bs] [\-del]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIphosphor\fP program draws text on the screen in a very large 
pixelated font that looks like an old low resolution dumb tty.  The
pixels flare and fade out as if the phosphor was very
long-sustain.  It is also a fully functional vt100 terminal emulator.
.SH OPTIONS
.I phosphor
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-font \fIfont-name\fP
The X font to use.  Phosphor can take any font and scale it up to pixelate
it.  The default is \fIfixed\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-scale \fIint\fP
How much to scale the font up: in other words, the size in real pixels of
the simulated pixels.  Default 6.
.TP 8
.B \-ticks \fIint\fP
The number of colors to use when fading to black.  Default 20.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fIusecs\fP
The speed of the terminal: how long to wait between drawing each character.
Default 50000, or about 1/20th second.
.TP 8
.B \-pty
Launch the sub-program under a PTY, so that it can address the screen
directly.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-pipe
Launch the sub-program at the end of a pipe: do not let it address the
screen directly.
.TP 8
.B \-program \fIsh-command\fP
The command to run to generate the text to display.  This option may
be any string acceptable to /bin/sh.  The program will be run at the
end of a pty or pipe, and any characters that it prints to \fIstdout\fP
will be printed on phosphor's window.  The characters will be printed
artificially slowly, as per the \fI\-delay\fP option above.  If the
program exits, it will be launched again after 5 seconds.

For example:
.EX
phosphor -program 'cat /usr/src/linux*/README'
phosphor -program 'ping localhost'
phosphor -program 'ps -e'
phosphor -program 'od -txC -w6 /dev/random'
phosphor -program 'cat /dev/random'
phosphor -scale 2 -geom =1280x1024 -program 'top'
phosphor -scale 4 -geom =1280x1024 \\
         -program 'mtr www.kernel.org'
phosphor -program 'xemacs -nw -q -f life'
phosphor -scale 5 -geom =1280x1024 \\
         -program 'xemacs -nw -q --eval "(hanoi 5)"'
.EE
If you have the
.BR festival (1)
text-to-speech system installed, you can have it read the screen as
phosphor prints it:
.EX
phosphor -program \\
    'xscreensaver-text | tee /dev/stderr | festival --tts'
.EE
You can also use \fIphosphor\fP as a lo-fi replacement for the
.BR xterm (1)
and
.BR gnome-terminal (1)
terminal emulators:
.EX
phosphor -delay 0 -program tcsh
.EE
.TP 8
.B \-esc
When the user types a key with the Alt or Meta keys held down, send an
ESC character first.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-meta
When Meta or Alt are held down, set the high bit on the character instead.
.TP 8
.B \-del
Swap Backspace and Delete.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-bs
Do not swap Backspace and Delete.
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate and CPU load.
.SH TERMINAL EMULATION
By default, \fIphosphor\fP allocates a pseudo-tty for the sub-process to
run under.  This has the desirable side effect that the program will be
able to use
.BR ioctl (2)
to fetch information about terminal parameters and window size, which
many programs (such as
.BR top (1))
need to run properly. \fIphosphor\fP will also set the environment
variable \fITERM\fP to \fIvt100\fP in the child process.

Any characters typed on the phosphor window will be passed along to
the sub-process.  (Note that this only works when running in "window"
mode, not when running in \fI\-root\fP mode under xscreensaver.)
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.TP 8
.B TERM
to inform the sub-process of the type of terminal emulation.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xscreensaver (1),
.BR xscreensaver-text (1),
.BR fortune (1),
.BR apple2 (MANSUFFIX),
.BR starwars (MANSUFFIX),
.BR fontglide (MANSUFFIX),
.BR ljlatest (MANSUFFIX),
.BR dadadodo (1),
.BR webcollage (MANSUFFIX),
.BR driftnet (1)
.BR EtherPEG ,
.BR EtherPeek ,
.BR console_codes (4).
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1999 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski <jwz@jwz.org>, 27-Apr-99.
Pty and vt100 emulation by Fredrik Tolf <fredrik@dolda2000.com>.
