.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
popsquares \- pop artish pulsing color grid.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B popsquares
[\-\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-\-window]
[\-\-root]
[\-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-delay \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-subdivision \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-border \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-ncolors \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-twitch]
[\-\-no-twitch]
[\-\-transparent]
[\-\-db]
[\-\-no-db]
[\-\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This draws a pop artish grid of pulsing colors.  Inspired by cheesy MTV commercials.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-\-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-\-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP
Draw on the specified window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-fg \fIstring\fP
Starting color of color ramp.  Default: red.
.TP 8
.B \-\-bg \fIstring\fP
Starting color of color ramp.  Default: blue.
.TP 8
.B \-\-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 25000.
.TP 8
.B \-\-subdivision \fInumber\fP
Number of subdivisions.  Default: 5.
.TP 8
.B \-\-border \fInumber\fP
Size of border between squares in pixels.  Default: 1.
.TP 8
.B \-\-ncolors \fInumber\fP
Number of colors.  Default: 128.
.TP 8
.B \-\-twitch | \-\-no-twitch
Randomize all squares index into the color ramp periodically.
.TP 8
.B \-\-db | \-\-no-db
Whether to double buffer.
.TP 8
.B \-\-fps
Display the current frame rate and CPU load.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.TP 8
.B XSCREENSAVER_WINDOW
The window ID to use with \fI\-\-root\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2003 by Levi Burton.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Levi Burton
