.TH XScreenSaver 1 "13-aug-92" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
pyro - simulate fireworks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pyro
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-foreground \fIcolor\fP] [\-background \fIcolor\fP] [\-window] [\-root] [\-mono] [\-install] [\-visual \fIvisual\fP] [\-count \fIinteger\fP] [\-frequency \fIinteger\fP] [\-scatter \fIinteger\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIpyro\fP program simulates fireworks, in a way similar to a Macintosh
program of the same name.
.SH OPTIONS
.I pyro
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-mono 
If on a color display, pretend we're on a monochrome display.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-count \fIinteger\fP
How many particles should be allowed on the screen at once.  Default 100.
.TP 8
.B \-frequency \fIinteger\fP
How often new missiles should launch.  Default 30.
.TP 8
.B \-scatter \fIinteger\fP
How many particles should appear when a missile explodes.  Default 20.
The actual number used is between \fIN\fP and \fIN+(N/2)\fP.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1992 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski <jwz@netscape.com>, 13-aug-92.
