.TH XScreenSaver 1 "14-Mar-01" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
rotzoomer \- animated rotations and scalings of portions of the screen
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rotzoomer
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-move | \-no\-move]
[\-delay \fImillisecs\fP]
[\-duration \fIsecs\fP]
[\-n \fIcount\fP]
[\-shm | \-no\-shm]
[\-window] [\-root] [\-install] [\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIrotzoomer\fP program grabs an image, then picks
rectangles and draws scaled and rotated animations of that 
section.

The image that it manipulates will be grabbed from the portion of
the screen underlying the window, or from the system's video input,
or from a random file on disk, as indicated by
the \fIgrabDesktopImages\fP, \fIgrabVideoFrames\fP,
and \fIchooseRandomImages\fP options in the \fI~/.xscreensaver\fP
file; see
.BR xscreensaver-demo (1)
for more details.
.SH OPTIONS
.I rotzoomer
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fImilliseconds\fP
How much of a delay should be introduced between steps of the animation.
Default 10, or about 1/100th second.
.TP 8
.B \-duration \fIseconds\fP
How long to run before loading a new image.  Default 120 seconds.
.TP 8
.B \-move
Make the rectangles should wander around the screen.
.TP 8
.B \-no\-move
Make the rectangles be stationary.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-n \fIcount\fP
How many rectangles to animate simultaneously.  Default 2.
.TP 8
.B \-no\-shm
Disable use of the SHM extension, even if it appears to be available.
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate and CPU load.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1),
.BR xscreensaver\-demo (1),
.BR xscreensaver\-getimage (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2001 by Claudio Matsuoka.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Claudio Matsuoka <claudio@helllabs.org>
