.TH XScreenSaver 1 "14-Mar-01" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
scooter \- shows a journey through space tunnel and stars
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B scooter
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-mono]
[\-delay \fImillisecs\fP]
[\-cycles \fIcycles\fP]
[\-count \fIcount\fP]
[\-size \fIsize\fP]
[\-ncolors \fIcolors\fP]
[\-window] [\-root] [\-install | \-noinstall] [\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-fps | \-no\-fps]
[\-pair]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIscooter\fP is a screensaver that shows endless journey through space tunnel and stars.
.SH OPTIONS
.I scooter
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fImilliseconds\fP
How much of a delay should be introduced between steps of the animation.
Default 10, or about 1/100th second.
.TP 8
.B \-cycles \fIcycles\fP
How fast/slow the screensaver is. \fIcycles\fP takes number of cycles. The default is 5 cycles.
.TP 8
.B \-count \fIcount\fP
Specifies how many doors in a tunnel can be rendered. Minimum is 4. Default is 24.
.TP 8
.B \-size \fIsize\fP
Specifies how many stars outside the tunnel can be rendered. Default is 100.
.TP 8
.B \-ncolors \fIcolors\fP
Specifies number of colors. A number that is less than or equals 2 means monochrome. \-mono achieves the same thing.
.TP 8
.B \-pair
Start screensaver in pairs (Not recommended)
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate and CPU load.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1),
.BR xscreensaver\-demo (1),
.BR xscreensaver\-getimage (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2001 by Sven Thoennissen.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Sven Thoennissen <posse@gmx.net>
