.TH XScreenSaver 1 "24-Nov-97" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
slidescreen - permute the screen image like an 8-puzzle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B slidescreen
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-background \fIcolor\fP] [\-grid-size \fIpixels\fP] [\-ibw \fIpixels\fP] [\-increment \fIpixels\fP] [\-delay \fIusecs\fP] [\-delay2 \fIusecs\fP] [\-window] [\-root] [\-install] [\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIslidescreen\fP program takes an image of the screen, divides it into
a grid, deletes a random square of that grid, and then randomly slides 
one of the neighbors of this "hole" into the hole (and repeat.)
.SH OPTIONS
.I slidescreen
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-grid-size \fIpixels\fP
The size of the grid cells.  Default 70 pixels.
.TP 8
.B \-ibw \fIpixels\fP
The size of the "gutter" between grid cells.  Default 1 pixel.
.TP 8
.B \-increment \fIpixels\fP
How many pixels by which a piece should be moved when sliding to a new 
location.  Default 10 pixels.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fImicroseconds\fP
How much of a delay should be introduced between steps of the animation of
the motion of each segment.  Default 50000, which is 0.05 seconds.  This
is closely related to the \fI\-increment\fP parameter.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fImicroseconds\fP
How much of a delay should be introduced between the end of the motion of
one segment and the beginning of the motion of another.  Default 1000000,
which is one second.
.SH RESOURCES
On some systems (currently, only SGIs), this program can, instead of grabbing
a desktop image, grab a frame of video from an external camera and manipulate
that instead.  The following resources control that.
.PP
.TP 8
.B grabVideoProbability \fR(Float)\fP
What portion of the time to grab video rather than a screen image, 
between 0.0 and 1.0.  Defaults to 0.5, or half the time.
.TP 8
.B videoDevice \fR(Integer)\fP
The number of the default video input device to check first.  If unspecified, 
the default camera (from videopanel(1)) will be checked first.  After that, all
other available video input devices will be checked in order.  

The first one which produces a non-black image will be used.  If all images
are black, the others will be re-checked a few times before giving up and
falling back to simply grabbing a desktop image (but note that this takes a
few seconds, so if you don't actually have any video sources hooked up, you
should consider turning off video grabbing by setting
\fBgrabVideoProbability\fP to 0.0.)
.TP 8
.B videoGain \fR(Float)\fP
The amount by which to brighten the grabbed image.  This defaults to 2.2.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1992 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski <jwz@netscape.com>, 3-dec-92.
