.TH XScreenSaver 1 "24-Nov-97" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
slip - sucks your screen into a jet engine
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B slip
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-foreground \fIcolor\fP] [\-background \fIcolor\fP] [\-window] [\-root] [\-mono] [\-install] [\-visual \fIvisual\fP] [\-ncolors \fIinteger\fP] [\-iterations \fIinteger\fP] [\-points \fIinteger\fP] [\-delay \fImicroseconds\fP] [\-delay2 \fImicroseconds\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIslip\fP program does lots of blits and chews up your screen image.
.SH OPTIONS
.I slip
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-mono 
If on a color display, pretend we're on a monochrome display.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-ncolors \fIinteger\fP
How many colors should be used (if possible).  Default 128.
The colors used cycle through the hue, making N stops around 
the color wheel.
.TP 8
.B \-count \fIinteger\fP
How many whooziwhatsis to generate.  Default 35.
.TP 8
.B \-cycles \fIinteger\fP
How long to frobnicate.  Default 50.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fImicroseconds\fP
How long we should wait between drawing each step.  Default 50000,
or about 1/20th second.

.SH RESOURCES
On some systems (currently, only SGIs), this program can, instead of grabbing
a desktop image, grab a frame of video from an external camera and manipulate
that instead.  The following resources control that.
.PP
.TP 8
.B grabVideoProbability \fR(Float)\fP
What portion of the time to grab video rather than a screen image, 
between 0.0 and 1.0.  Defaults to 0.5, or half the time.
.TP 8
.B videoDevice \fR(Integer)\fP
The number of the default video input device to check first.  If unspecified, 
the default camera (from videopanel(1)) will be checked first.  After that, all
other available video input devices will be checked in order.  

The first one which produces a non-black image will be used.  If all images
are black, the others will be re-checked a few times before giving up and
falling back to simply grabbing a desktop image (but note that this takes a
few seconds, so if you don't actually have any video sources hooked up, you
should consider turning off video grabbing by setting
\fBgrabVideoProbability\fP to 0.0.)
.TP 8
.B videoGain \fR(Float)\fP
The amount by which to brighten the grabbed image.  This defaults to 2.2.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1),
.BR xlock (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1992 by Scott Draves.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation. 
.SH AUTHOR
Scott Graves <spot@cs.cmu.edu>.

Ability to run standalone or with \fIxscreensaver\fP added by 
Jamie Zawinski <jwz@jwz.org>, 18-Oct-93.
