.TH XScreenSaver 1 "23-Apr-01" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
speedmine \- simulates speeding down a rocky mineshaft, or a funky dancing worm
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B speedmine 
[\-\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-\-root]
[\-\-window]
[\-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-install]
[\-\-noinstall]
[\-\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-\-wire]
[\-\-nowire]
[\-\-worm]
[\-\-foreground \fIcolor\fP]
[\-\-background \fIcolor\fP]
[\-\-darkground \fIcolor\fP]
[\-\-lightground \fIcolor\fP]
[\-\-tunnelend \fIcolor\fP]
[\-\-delay \fImicroseconds\fP]
[\-\-maxspeed \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-thrust \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-gravity \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-vertigo \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-terrain]
[\-\-noterrain]
[\-\-smoothness \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-curviness \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-twistiness \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-widening]
[\-\-nowidening]
[\-\-bumps]
[\-\-nobumps]
[\-\-bonuses]
[\-\-crosshair]
[\-\-nocrosshair]
[\-\-psychedelic]
[\-\-nopsychedelic]
[\-\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP 8
Speedmine!
 
Down the speedmine, you'll find speed

to satisfy your moving needs;

So if you're looking for a blast

then hit the speedmine, really fast.
.PP
Speedworm loves you.
 
Speedworm likes to bump and grind

and chase her tail, and dance around

she really is a funky friend;

she's made of speed from end to end.
.PP
You can configure stuff
either with command-line options or X resources.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP
Specifies which X display we should use (see the section DISPLAY NAMES in
.BR X (1)
for more information about this option).
.TP 8
.B \-\-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP
Draw on the specified window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-\-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-noinstall
Don't install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual
class, or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
Possible choices include

.RS
default, best, mono, monochrome, gray, grey, color, staticgray, staticcolor, 
truecolor, grayscale, greyscale, pseudocolor, directcolor, \fInumber\fP

If a decimal or hexadecimal number is used, 
.BR XGetVisualInfo (3X)
is consulted to obtain the required visual.
.RE
.TP 8
.B \-\-worm
Be a happy spastic worm instead of a tunnel.
.TP 8
.B \-\-wire
Specifies that the tunnel/worm should always be rendered in wireframe style.
.TP 8
.B \-\-nowire
Specifies that the tunnel/worm should be rendered normally. Note that 
tunnel rendering may still temporarily switch to wireframe style when 
a wireframe bonus is hit, if
.B bonuses
are enabled.
.TP 8
.B \-\-foreground \fIcolor\fP
Specifies the default foreground color.
.TP 8
.B \-\-background \fIcolor\fP
Specifies the default background color.
.TP 8
.B \-\-darkground \fIcolor\fP
Specifies the color of the darkest portions of the ground (or the
worm's belly.)  The ground/belly is colored by a gradient between
.B darkground
and
.B lightground.
.TP 8
.B \-\-lightground \fIcolor\fP
Specifies the color of the lightest portions of the ground/belly. 
The ground/belly is colored by a gradient between
.B darkground
and
.B lightground.
.TP 8
.B \-\-tunnelend \fIcolor\fP
Specifies the color of the light at the end of the tunnel.
.TP 8
.B \-\-delay \fImicroseconds\fP
Specifies the delay between drawing successive frames. If you do not specify 
.BR -sync ,
some X servers may batch up several drawing operations together,
producing a less smooth effect.   This is more likely to happen 
in monochrome mode (on monochrome servers or when 
.B \-\-mono 
is specified).
.TP 8
.B -maxspeed \fInumber\fP
Specifies an upper bound on the speed of normal movement. This does not
affect the speed that may be attained when hitting a speed bonus.
.TP 8
.B -thrust \fInumber\fP
Specifies the thrust constantly applied. Positive numbers indicate a forwards
thrust, negative numbers indicate a backwards thrust.
.TP 8
.B -gravity \fInumber\fP
Specifies the effect of gravity. Larger numbers will increase acceleration
downhill and decrease acceleration uphill.
.TP 8
.B -vertigo \fInumber\fP
Specifies to what level the demo should accentuate the curvature and
windiness of the tunnel or worm.
.TP 8
.B -terrain
Continuously generate a fractal terrain to simulate the rockiness of the
tunnel walls, or the texture of the worm's skin.
.TP 8
.B -noterrain
Do not generate terrain. When this option is set, all surfaces are flat.
.TP 8
.B -smoothness \fInumber\fP
When
.BR -terrain
is set, specifies how smooth the walls or skin are.
.TP 8
.B -curviness \fInumber\fP
Controls how much the generated tunnel (or worm) should curve left 
and right, and dip up and down.
.TP 8
.B -twistiness \fInumber\fP
Controls how much the generated tunnel (or worm) twists around itself.
.TP 8
.B -widening
Specifies that the generated tunnel (or worm) may vary in width.
.TP 8
.B -nowidening
Specifies that the average width should be kept constant.
.TP 8
.B -bumps
Indicates that the simulation should take the bumpiness of the ground into
account and allow the animation to shake and rattle when travelling over
rough ground.  Or that the worm should be allowed to bump around and 
shake her booty.
.TP 8
.B -nobumps
Indicates that the bumpiness of the ground should be ignored, such that the
simulation will glide through the tunnel.  Or that the worm should calm
down and behave herself.
.TP 8
.B -bonuses
Indicates that the demo should include bonus events. These include speed
bonuses, spins, and changes of viewpoint and rendering style.
.TP 8
.B -nobonuses
Indicates that bonuses should not be included in the demo.
.TP 8
.B -crosshair
Specifies that a gaming style crosshair be drawn on the simulation. This
serves little purpose but may make hardcore gamers feel more comfortable.
.TP 8
.B -nocrosshair
Specifies that no crosshair be drawn.
.TP 8
.B -psychedelic
Specifies that a psychedelic colormap should be generated. When this is
set, the walls and ground of the tunnel are drawn in an often changing
rainbow of colours.
.TP 8
.B -nopsychedelic
Specifies that a normal colormap should be used, with muted walls and a
grey road.
.TP 8
.B \-\-fps
Display the current frame rate and CPU load.
.SH WARNING
Speedworm is a trained professional. Do not try this at home.

Prolonged viewing of this demo with
.B maxspeed
and
.B vertigo
above the defaults may have short-term psychological side effects including
hyperactivity and attention deficiency.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.TP 8
.B XSCREENSAVER_WINDOW
The window ID to use with \fI\-\-root\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2001, Conrad Parker.  Permission to use, copy, modify,
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Conrad Parker <conrad@deephackmode.org>, April 2001.
