.TH XScreenSaver 1 "05-Apr-1999" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
spotlight \- move spotlight around desktop
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B spotlight
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-foreground \fIcolor\fP]
[\-background \fIcolor\fP] [\-window] [\-root] [\-mono] [\-install]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-delay \fIusecs\fP]
[\-duration \fIsecs\fP]
[\-radius \fIpixels\fP]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIspotlight\fP program takes an image and exposes small sections
of it as if through a wandering spotlight beam.

The image that it manipulates will be grabbed from the portion of
the screen underlying the window, or from the system's video input,
or from a random file on disk, as indicated by
the \fIgrabDesktopImages\fP, \fIgrabVideoFrames\fP,
and \fIchooseRandomImages\fP options in the \fI~/.xscreensaver\fP
file; see
.BR xscreensaver-demo (1)
for more details.
.SH OPTIONS
.I spotlight
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-mono 
If on a color display, pretend we're on a monochrome display.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fImicroseconds\fP
Slow it down.
.TP 8
.B \-duration \fIseconds\fP
How long to run before loading a new image.  Default 120 seconds.
.TP 8
.B \-radius \fIpixels\fP
Radius of the spotlight in pixels.
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate and CPU load.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1),
.BR xscreensaver\-demo (1),
.BR xscreensaver\-getimage (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1999 by Rick Schultz.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH CREDITS
Hacked together by Rick Schultz <rick@skapunx.net>, based on StefView for
BackSpace by Darcy Brockbank and on several other xscreensaver hacks.
