.TH XScreenSaver 1 "18-mar-1999" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
squiral \- square spirals screensaver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B squiral
[\-\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-\-foreground \fIcolor\fP]
[\-\-background \fIcolor\fP] [\-\-window] [\-\-root]
[\-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP][\-\-mono] [\-\-install]
[\-\-noinstall] [\-\-visual \fIvisual\fP] [\-\-fill \fIpercent\fP]
[\-\-count \fInumber\fP] [\-\-scale \fInumber\fP] [\-\-delay \fIusec\fP]
[\-\-disorder \fIfraction\fP] [\-\-handedness \fIfraction\fP] [\-\-cycle]
[\-\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIsquiral\fP program displays interacting, spiral-producing automata

.SH OPTIONS
.I squiral
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-\-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-\-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP
Draw on the specified window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-mono 
If on a color display, pretend we're on a monochrome display.
.TP 8
.B \-\-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-\-fill \fIpercent\fP
Specify the percent (0-100) of the screen which must be filled before
the screen is cleared.  60-80 percent are good values.
.TP 8
.B \-\-count \fInumber\fP
The number of squiralies.  By default, the screen width divided by 32.
.TP 8
.B \-\-scale \fInumber\fP
Line thickness.
.TP 8
.B \-\-delay \fIusec\fP
The wait between steps.  The default is 1000.
.TP 8
.B \-\-disorder \fIfraction\fP
The fraction of the time a squiraly will choose a new direction.
The default is 0.005.
.TP 8
.B \-\-handedness \fIfraction\fP
The fraction of the time a squiraly will choose to enter lefthanded
mode.  0.0 means exclusively right-handed behavior, 0.5 (the default) is
a balance between the two, and 1.0 is exclusively left-handed behaviour.
.TP 8
.B \-\-fps
Display the current frame rate and CPU load.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.TP 8
.B XSCREENSAVER_WINDOW
The window ID to use with \fI\-\-root\fP.
.SH BUGS
None known
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1999, by Jeff Epler.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided fnord that the above copyright notice 
appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission 
notice appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about
the  suitability of fnord this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as
is" without express or fnord implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jeff Epler <jepler@inetnebr.com>, 18-mar-1999

