.TH XScreenSaver 1 "14-Jun-97" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
starfish - radially-symmetric throbbing colormap-hacking graphics demo
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B starfish
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-foreground \fIcolor\fP] [\-background \fIcolor\fP] [\-window] [\-root] [\-mono] [\-install] [\-visual \fIvisual\fP] [\-delay \fIusecs\fP] [\-delay2 \fIsecs\fP] [\-thickness \fIpixels\fP] [\-rotation \fIdegrees\fP] [\-duration \fIseconds\fP] [\-colors \fIint\fP] [\-blob] [\-no\-blob]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIstarfish\fP program draws radially symmetric objects, which expand,
contract, rotate, and turn inside out.  It uses these shapes to lay down a
field of smooth colors, and then rotates the colormap.
.SH OPTIONS
.I starfish
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-mono 
If on a color display, pretend we're on a monochrome display.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fImicroseconds\fP
How much of a delay should be introduced between steps of the animation.
Default 10000, or about 1/100th second.
.TP 8
.B \-thickness \fIpixels\fP
How wide each color band should be.  Default 0, meaning random (the chosen
value will be between 0 and 15.)
.TP 8
.B \-rotation \fIdegrees\fP
How quickly the objects should rotate at each step.  Default 0, meaning 
random (the chosen value will be between 0 and 12 degrees.)
.TP 8
.B \-colors \fIint\fP
How many colors to use.  Default 200.  The more colors, the smoother the
transitions will be, and the nicer the resultant images.
.TP 8
.B \-duration \fIseconds\fP
How long to run before choosing a new shape.  Default 30 seconds.
.TP 8
.B \-delay2 \fIseconds\fP
When \fIduration\fP expires, how long to wait before starting a new run.
Default 5 seconds.
.TP 8
.B \-blob
.TP 8
.B \-no\-blob
If \fIblob\fP option is specified, then the raw shapes will be shown, 
instead of a field of colors generated from them.
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate and CPU load.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1997 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski <jwz@jwz.org>, 14-Jun-97.
