.TH Substrate 1 "08-Oct-04" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
substrate \- Grow crystal-like lines on a computational substrate
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B substrate
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-foreground \fIcolor\fP]
[\-background \fIcolor\fP]
[\-wireframe]
[\-max\-cycles \fIcyclecount\fP]
[\-growth\-delay \fIdelayms\fP]
[\-initial\-cracks \fInuminitial\fP]
[\-max\-cracks \fInummax\fP]
[\-sand\-grains \fInumgrains\fP]
[\-circle\-percent \fIcirclepercent\fP]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Lines like crystals grow on a computational substrate.  A simple 
perpendicular growth rule creates intricate city-like structures.  Optionally, cracks may also be circular, producing a cityscape more familiar to places for which city planning is a distant, theoretical concern.

Ported from the code by j.tarbell at http://complexification.net
.SH OPTIONS
.I substrate
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-wireframe (Default: \fIFalse\fP)
Don't draw sand-painting colored effects, only make a wireframe.
.TP 8
.B \-max\-cycles \fIcyclecount\fP (Default: \fI10000\fP)
Maximum number of growth cycles before restarting.  The higher this is,
the more complex the art.
.TP 8
.B \-growth\-delay \fIdelayms\fP (Default: \fI18000\fP)
Delay in ms between growth cycles.  More delay, slower (but smoother
and less CPU intensive)
art.
.TP 8
.B \-initial\-cracks \fInuminitial\fP (Default: \fI3\fP)
Initial number of cracks in the substrate
.TP 8
.B \-max\-cracks \fInummax\fP (Default: \fI100\fP)
Maximum number of cracks in the substrate at a single time
.TP 8
.B \-sand\-grains \fInumgrains\fP (Default: \fI64\fP)
Number of sand grains dropped during coloring.  More grains cause 
a denser colour but use more cpu power.
.TP 8
.B \-circle-percent \fIcirclepercent\fP (Default: \fI0\fP)
The percentage of the cracks will be circular.
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate and CPU load.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global
resources stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2003 by J. Tarbell
(complex@complexification.net, http://www.complexification.net).

Ported to XScreensaver 2004 by Mike Kershaw (dragorn@kismetwireless.net)
.SH AUTHOR
J. Tarbell <complex@complexification.net>, Jun-03

Mike Kershaw <dragorn@kismetwireless.net>, Oct-04
