.TH XScreenSaver 1 "27-May-97" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
truchet \- draws curved or angular Truchet patterns
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B truchet
[\-\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]  [\-\-foreground \fIcolor\fP] [\-\-background \fIcolor\fP]
[\-\-window] [\-\-root]
[\-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP][\-\-mono] [\-\-install] [\-\-visual \fIvisual\fP] [\-\-delay \fImilliseconds\fP]
[\-\-min\-width \fIinteger\fP] [\-\-min-height \fIinteger\fP] [\-\-max-width \fIinteger\fP] 
[\-\-max-height \fIinteger\fP] [\-\-max\-linewidth \fIinteger\fP] [\-\-min-linewidth \fIinteger\fP] 
[\-\-erase] [\-\-no\-erase] [\-\-erase\-count \fIinteger\fP] [\-\-square] [\-\-not\-square] [\-\-curves]
[\-\-no\-curves] [\-\-angle] [\-\-no\-angles] [\-\-scroll] [\-\-scroll\-overlap \fIinteger\fP] 
[\-\-anim\-delay \fIinteger\fP] [\-\-anim\-step\-size \fIinteger\fP]

[\-\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fItruchet\fP program draws arc and line based Truchet patterns.
.SH OPTIONS
.I truchet
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B  \-\-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-\-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP
Draw on the specified window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-mono 
If on a color display, pretend we're on a monochrome display.
.TP 8
.B \-\-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.

.TP 8
.B \-\-delay \fImilliseconds\fP
How long to wait between drawing each screenful. Default is 1 seconds.

.TP 8 
.B \-\-min-width \fIinteger\fP
The minimum width in pixels of each square. Default is 40.

.TP 8
.B \-\-min-height \fIinteger\fP
The minimum height in pixels of each square. Default is 40.

.TP 8
.B \-\-max-width \fIinteger\fP
The maximum width in pixels of each square. Default is 150.

.TP 8
.B \-\-max-height \fIinteger\fP
The maximum height in pixels of each square. Default is 150.

.TP 8
.B \-\-max-linewidth \fIinteger\fP
The maximum width of the lines used to draw. Default is 25.

.TP 8
.B \-\-min-linewidth \fIinteger\fP
The minimum width of the lines used to draw. Default is 2.

.TP 8
.B \-\-erase

.TP 8
.B \-\-no-erase
Whether to clear the screen after each screenful is drawn. Default is True (erase).

.TP 8
.B \-\-erase-count \fIinteger\fP
The number of screenfuls to draw before erasing. Default is 25.

.TP 8
.B \-\-square

.TP 8
.B \-\-not-square
Whether to force the tiles to be square. Default is True (square).

.TP 8
.B \-\-curves

.TP 8
.B \-\-no-curves
Whether to draw the arc based Truchet pattern. Default is True (curves).

.TP 8
.B \-\-angles

.TP 8
.B \-\-no-angles
Whether or not to draw the line based Truchet pattern. Default is True (angles)

.TP 8
.B \-\-scroll
Use the scroll mode. Default is False.

.TP 8
.B \-\-scroll-overlap
The amount to scroll from one side to another. Default is 400.

.TP 8
.B \-\-anim-delay
The time to pause between each animation step. Default is 100.

.TP 8
.B \-\-anim-step-size
The amount of steps to skip between each animation step. Default is 3.


.TP 8
.B \-\-fps
Display the current frame rate and CPU load.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.TP 8
.B XSCREENSAVER_WINDOW
The window ID to use with \fI\-\-root\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1998 by Adrian Likins.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation. 
.SH AUTHOR
Adrian Likins, 1998.

