.TH XScreenSaver 1 "07-Feb-2002" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
twang \- pluck pieces of the screen
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B twang
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-foreground \fIcolor\fP]
[\-background \fIcolor\fP]
[\-window]
[\-root]
[\-mono]
[\-install]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-shm]
[\-no-shm]
[\-delay \fIusecs\fP]
[\-duration \fIsecs\fP]
[\-border-color \fIcolor\fP]
[\-border-width \fIinteger\fP]
[\-event-chance \fIfraction\fP]
[\-friction \fIfraction\fP]
[\-springiness \fIfraction\fP]
[\-tile-size \fIinteger\fP]
[\-transference \fIfraction\fP]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fITwang\fP divides the screen into equal-sized tiles, and then plucks
them in various ways. Tiles are affected by their neighbors, so waves
of motion flow through the grid. This manpage
describes v1.3 of the program.
.SH OPTIONS
.I twang
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-mono 
If on a color display, pretend we're on a monochrome display.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-shm
.TP 8
.B \-no-shm
Use the shared memory extension (or not, respectively), if available. 
This may speed things
up a bit, but probably won't make that much difference. If available,
defaults to true, resource \fIuseSHM\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fImicroseconds\fP
The interframe delay, in microseconds. Defaults to 10000, resource
\fIdelay\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-duration \fIseconds\fP
How long to run before loading a new image.  Default 120 seconds.
.TP 8
.B \-border-color \fIcolor\fP
Color of the border surrounding each tile. Defaults to blue, resource
\fIborderColor\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-border-width \fIinteger\fP
Width of the border surrounding each tile. Defaults to 3, resource
\fIborderWidth\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-event-chance \fIfraction\fP
The chance, per iteration, for an event to occur (such as tweaking
the orientation of a tile), in the range 0..1. Defaults to 0.01,
resource \fIeventChance\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-friction \fIfraction\fP
How much friction there is in the system, in the range 0..1. 
This is the amount by which velocities are damped per iteration.
Defaults to 0.05, resource \fIfriction\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-springiness \fIfraction\fP
How springy the tiles are, in the range 0..1. 
This is the fraction of an orientation that gets turned into a velocity
towards the center (resting point). Defaults to 0.1, resource 
\fIspringiness\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-tile-size \fIinteger\fP
Size (width and height) of each tile, not including the outer edge
of the border. Defaults to 120, resource \fItileSize\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-transference \fIfraction\fP
How much a tile's neighbors affect it, in the range 0..1. 
This is the fraction of an orientation of a neighbor that gets turned 
into a velocity in the same direction Defaults to 0.025, resource 
\fItransference\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate and CPU load.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH X RESOURCES
There are resource equivalents for each option, noted above.
.SH BUGS
.I twang
should have more interesting events.
.TP 8
Ways of speeding it up need to be investigated. It's kinda sluggish,
especially on hugeass displays.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2002 by Dan Bornstein. All rights reserved.

Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
documentation. No representations are made about the suitability of this
software for any purpose. It is provided "as is" without express or 
implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Dan Bornstein <danfuzz@milk.com>.
