.TH XScreenSaver 1 "31-Mar-01" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
whirlygig -- zooming chains of sinusoidal spots
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B whirlygig
[\-\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-\-window] [\-\-root]
[\-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP][\-\-mono]
[\-\-install] [\-\-noinstall] [\-\-visual arg] [\-\-window-id arg]   
[\-\-xspeed arg] [\-\-yspeed arg] [\-\-whirlies arg] [\-\-nlines arg] 
[\-\-xmode arg] [\-\-ymode arg] [\-\-speed arg] [\-\-trail 1|0]
[\-\-color_modifier arg] [\-\-start_time arg] [\-\-explain 1|0]
[\-\-wrap 1|0] [\-\-db] [\-\-no-db] 

[\-\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIwhirlygig\fP program draws a series of circles on your screen.
They then move about in a cyclic pattern
.SH OPTIONS
.I whirlygig
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-\-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-\-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP
Draw on the specified window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-\-xspeed \fIspeed\fP
Specify how fast the dots should cycle horizontally.
Try out values from .01 to 4000. Defaults to 1.0.
.TP 8
.B \-\-yspeed \fIspeed\fP
Specify how fast the dots should cycle vertically.
Try out values from .01 to 4000. Defaults to 1.0.
.TP 8
.B \-\-xamplitude \fIfactor\fP
Specify the horizontal amplitude.
Try out values from .01 to 10. Defaults to 1.0.
.TP 8
.B \-\-yamplitude \fIfactor\fP
Specify the horizontal amplitude.
Try out values from .01 to 10. Defaults to 1.0.
.TP 8
.B \-\-whirlies \fIa number\fP
Specify how many whirlies you want (per line). Defaults
to a random number.
.TP 8
.B \-\-nlines \fInumber of lines\fP
Specify how many lines of whirlies you want. Defaults to a 
random number.
.TP 8
.B \-\-xmode \fImode\fP
.TP 8 
.B \-\-ymode \fImode\fP
Specify which mode to use for calculating the x and y positions of the
whirlies. Can be any of spin, funky, circle, linear, test, fun, innie
or lissajous. Defaults to 'change' mode, which randomly selects a new
mode for x and y every now an then. Unrecognized options default to spin.
.TP 8
.B \-\-explain
Prints some strings to the window explaining what the initially
selected modes are, before displaying the whirlies. Off by default.
.TP 8
.B \-\-trail \fI1 or 0\fP
Trail mode fails to erase the whirlies as they move, so they leave a
multicoloured trail behind. Doesn't work if the doubled buffered mode
is using the X server's double buffer extension, and the useDBEclear 
resource is true (which it is by default).
.TP 8
.B \-\-speed \fIint\fP
Specifies how fast to cycle through the internal time. Values 1,2 and
3 look ok, up to 10 is not too bad, but beyond ends up
flickery. Adjust xspeed and yspeed instead.
.TP 8
.B \-\-start_time \fIint\fP
Where in the internal time cycle to start. Ranges from 1 to 429496729,
Defaults to a random value.
.TP 8
.B \-\-xoffset \fIfactor\fP
Tell the whirlies to be offset by this factor of a sin.
Defaults to 1.0
.TP 8
.B \-\-yoffset \fIfactor\fP
Tell the whirlies to be offset by this factor of a cos.
Defaults to 1.0
.TP 8
.B \-\-offset_period \fIfactor\fP
Change the period of an offset cycle
Defaults to 1
.TP 8
.B \-\-color_modifier \fIint\fP
How many colors away from the current should the next whirly be?
.TP 8
.B \-\-wrap \fI1|0\fP
Causes whirlies that fall off the edge of the screen to wrap over to
the other end of the screen. Otherwise they disappear and new ones
to materialize on the other side of the screen. The difference is
subtle, but it is different. Try it. On by default.
.TP 8
.B \-\-db
.TP 8
.B \-\-no-db
Use double buffering to reduce flicker. This uses the double buffering
extension if your X server supports it, otherwise it draws to it's own
pixmap buffer and copies that to the window, which works almost as
well. If the resource 'useDBEClear' is true, whirlies are not 
individually erased, so the -trail option won't work, and running
multiple instances on the root window will flicker. 

.TP 8
.B \-\-fps
Display the current frame rate and CPU load.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.TP 8
.B XSCREENSAVER_WINDOW
The window ID to use with \fI\-\-root\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2001 by Ashton Trey Belew.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Ashton Trey Belew <trey@veggie.wesleyan.edu>, 31-Mar-01
