.TH XScreenSaver 1 "11-feb-04" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
wormhole - animation of flying through a wormhole
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wormhole
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-window]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-root]
[\-stars \fIn\fP]
[\-delay \fIusecs\fP]
[\-zspeed \fIn\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIwormhole\fP program shows an animation of flying through a tunnel surrounded by streaks of light.
.SH OPTIONS
.I wormhole
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-mono
Make all the rocks the same color.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-stars \fIinteger\fP
Number of stars to create every animation loop.
.TP 8
.B \-zspeed \fIinteger\fP
Speed light streaks fly by.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fImicroseconds\fP
Number of microseconds to delay between each frame.  Default 50000, meaning
about 1/20th second.  Compare and contrast with \fI\-speed\fP, above.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2004 by Jon Rafkind.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jon Rafkind <jon@rafkind.com>
