.TH XScreenSaver 1 "27-Feb-00" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xflame - draws animated flames
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xflame
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-window] [\-root] [\-install]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP] [\-hspread \fIint\fP] [\-vspread \fIint\fP]
[\-residual \fIint\fP] [\-variance \fIint\fP] [\-vartrend \fIint\fP] 
[\-bloom \| \-no\-bloom] 
[\-bitmap \fIxbm\-file\fP] [\-baseline \fIint\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIxflame\fP program draws animated flames across the bottom of the
screen.  The flames occasionally flare up.  If a bitmap is specified,
that image will float above the flames, burning.
.SH OPTIONS
.I xflame
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-bitmap \fIfilename\fP\fP
Specifies the bitmap file to use (a monochrome XBM file.)
The name "none" means not to use a bitmap at all.
If unspecified, a built-in image will be used.
.PP
The other options are arcane.  If someone would care to document them,
that would be great.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1996-1999 by Carsten Haitzler.  Permission to use, copy,
modify, distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for
any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that the above
copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
No representations are made about the suitability of this software for
any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Primarily written by Carsten Haitzler <raster@redhat.com>.
Modified over the years by Rahul Jain <rahul@rice.edu>, 
Daniel Zahn <stumpy@religions.com>, and Jamie Zawinski <jwz@jwz.org>.
