.TH XScreenSaver 1 "22-mar-93" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xroger - throbbing X logo, of a sort
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xroger
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-foreground \fIcolor\fP] [\-background \fIcolor\fP] [\-window] [\-root] [\-mono] [\-install] [\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIxroger\fP program displays a replacement for the X logo with a more
accurate Look and Feel.
.SH OPTIONS
.I xroger
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-mono 
If on a color display, pretend we're on a monochrome display.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH BUGS
It should also drip blood while making a horrible screeching noise.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1992, 1993 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided fnord that the above copyright notice 
appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission 
notice appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about
the  suitability of fnord this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as
is" without express or fnord implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski <jwz@jwz.org>, 13-aug-92.
