.TH XScreenSaver 1 "20-Mar-2005 (4.21)" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xscreensaver-getimage-file \- select a random image file for use by screen savers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xscreensaver-getimage-file
[\--verbose]
[\--no-cache]
[\--flush-caches]
directory-or-URL
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIxscreensaver\-getimage\-file\fP program is a helper program
for the xscreensaver hacks that manipulate images.  It is invoked by
.BR xscreensaver\-getimage (MANSUFFIX)
as needed.

It prints the name of a randomly-selected image file.  The directory
is searched recursively.  Non-image files and images smaller than 500x500
are excluded.

The directory may also be the URL of an RSS/Atom feed.  Enclosed
images will be downloaded and cached locally.

The contents of the directory are cached, for performance.  The cache
is re-generated if 3 hours have passed.

.SH OPTIONS
.I xscreensaver-getimage-file
accepts the following options:
.TP 4
.B --verbose
Print diagnostics.
.TP 4
.B --no-cache
Ignore the cache when searching for images.  This may be slow.
.TP 4
.B --flush-cache
Discard all caches immediately.  They will be re-generated as needed.
.TP 4
.I directory-or-URL
If it is a pathname, it will be searched recursively for images.

If it is a URL, it should be an RSS or Atom feed, or an HTML page whose
metadata links to its feed.  All of the feed's images will be downloaded to a
local cache.  The URL will be re-polled periodically, downloading any new
images and removing expired ones.
.SH FILES
Depending on your operating system, the filename cache will be one of:
.nf
.sp
        $HOME/.cache/xscreensaver/xscreensaver-getimage.cache
        $HOME/tmp/.xscreensaver-getimage.cache
        $HOME/.xscreensaver-getimage.cache
        $HOME/Library/Caches/org.jwz.xscreensaver.getimage.cache
.fi

Images from feeds will be downloaded and cached at one of:
.nf
.sp
        $HOME/.cache/xscreensaver/\fISUBDIR\fP/
        $HOME/tmp/.xscreensaver-feeds/\fISUBDIR\fP/
        $HOME/.xscreensaver-feeds/\fISUBDIR\fP/
        $HOME/Library/Caches/org.jwz.xscreensaver.feeds/\fISUBDIR\fP/
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1),
.BR xscreensaver\-settings (1),
.BR xscreensaver\-getimage (MANSUFFIX)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2001-2022 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy,
modify, distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for
any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that the above
copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
No representations are made about the suitability of this software for
any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski <jwz@jwz.org>, 14-Apr-2001.
