.TH XScreenSaver 1 "20-Mar-2005 (4.21)" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xscreensaver-getimage-video \- grab a video still frame for use by screen savers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xscreensaver-getimage-video
[\--verbose]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIxscreensaver\-getimage\-video\fP program is a helper program
for the xscreensaver hacks that manipulate images.  Specifically, it
is invoked by
.BR xscreensaver\-getimage (MANSUFFIX)
as needed.

It grabs a single frame of video from the system's video input to a file,
and prints the name of that file on stdout. It does this by figuring out
which frame-grabbing programs are installed on the system, and invoking the
first one it finds.
.SH OPTIONS
.I xscreensaver-getimage-video
accepts the following options:
.TP 4
.B --verbose
Print diagnostics.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1),
.BR xscreensaver\-settings (1),
.BR xscreensaver\-getimage (MANSUFFIX),
.BR xscreensaver\-getimage\-file (MANSUFFIX),
.BR atitv (1),
.BR bttvgrab (1),
.BR ffmpeg (1),
.BR gqcam (1),
.BR grab (1),
.BR motioneye (1),
.BR mplayer (1),
.BR qcam (1),
.BR streamer (1),
.BR v4lctl (1),
.BR vidcat (1),
.BR vidtomem (1).
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2001-2021 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy,
modify, distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for
any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that the above
copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
No representations are made about the suitability of this software for
any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski <jwz@jwz.org>, 14-Apr-2001.
