.TH XScreenSaver 1 "9-Dec-2001" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xspirograph - simulates the rotation of a disk inside a circular rim
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xspirograph
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-window] [\-root] [\-install]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP] 
[\-delay \fIseconds\fP] 
[\-subdelay \fIuseconds\fP] 
[\-layers \fIinteger\fP]
[\-alwaysfinish] [\-noalwaysfinish]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIxspirograph\fP draws patterns such as those made by a
spirograph, that is, the curve traced by a point on a circular
disk rotating on the inside of a hollow circular rim.
.SH OPTIONS
.I xspirograph
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fIsecs\fP
The delay between finishing one draw and starting the next. Default:
5 seconds.
.TP 8
.B \-subdelay \fIusec\fP
The time to delay between each hundred line draws.  Use this if you
want to see the pattern form.  Default: 0.
.TP 8
.B \-alwaysfinish\fP  \fB\-noalwaysfinish\fP
If you want each pattern to draw until it is done, specify the first.
Otherwise, they will stop after a set number of iterations.  Default: 
no.
.TP 8
.B \-layers \fIinteger\fP
Number of pairs of patterns to draw between each erase.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2000 by Rohit Singh
<rohit_singh@hotmail.com> Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute,
and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is hereby
granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear in
all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission
notice appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made
about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided
"as is" without express or implied warranty.
.P
Modified by Matthew Strait <straitm@mathcs.carleton.edu> Dec 2001.
