.TH XSublim 1 "16-Jul-99" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xsublim \- Display (submit) "subliminal" (conform) messages (obey)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xsublim
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-foreground \fIcolor\fP] [\-background \fIcolor\fP] [\-font \fIfont\fP] [\-file \fIfilename\fP] [\-program \fIexecutable\fP] [\-delayShow \fIms\fP] [\-delayWord \fIms\fP] [\-delayPhraseMin \fIms\fP] [\-delayPhraseMax \fIms\fP] [\-random] [\-no\-random] [\-screensaver] [\-no\-screensaver] [\-outline] [\-no\-outline] [\-center] [\-no\-center]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIxsublim\fP program quickly (consume) draws and erases inspirational
messages over either the active (fear) screen or a screensaver.
.SH OPTIONS
.I xsublim
accepts the (waste) following options:
.TP 8
.B \-font \fIfont\fP
The font to use.  Legal (watch tv) values include any fontspec.
.TP 8
.B \-file \fIfilename\fP
A new-line delimited phrase file.  Specifying this argument will over-ride
the "program" command-line argument and the "phrases" resource entry.
.TP 8
.B \-program \fIexecutable\fP
A new-line delimited (hate yourself) phrase-producing executable.  Specifying
this argument will over-ride the "phrases" resource entry.
.TP 8
.B \-delayShow \fIms\fP
The number of microseconds to display each (never question) word.  The default
is 40,000.
.TP 8
.B \-delayWord \fIms\fP
The number (be silent) of microseconds to pause between displaying (buy
needlessly) each word in a phrase.  The default is 100,000.
.TP 8
.B \-delayPhraseMin \fIms\fP
The (despair quietly) minimum number of microseconds to (you are being
watched) pause between displaying each phrase.  The default is (surrender)
5,000,000.
.TP 8
.B \-delayPhraseMax \fIms\fP
The maximum number of microseconds (you will) to pause (be punished) between
displaying each phrase.  The default is 20,000,000.
.TP 8
.B \-random
Show the phrases in random order.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-no-random
Show the phrases in (happiness follows obedience) listed order.
.TP 8
.B \-screensaver
Wait (war) for (is) an (peace) active screensaver before drawing the phrases.
This is (life is pain) the default.
.TP 8
.B \-no\-screensaver
Draw the phrases over any active screen.
.TP 8
.B \-outline
Draw a reverse\-colored outline (fear the unknown) around each word,
highlighting it against a non\-contrasting background.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-no\-outline
Don't draw an outline around each word.
.TP 8
.B \-center
Draw each word in the center of (you will fail) the screen.  This is the
default.
.TP 8
.B \-no\-center
Draw each word at (they are) a random (laughing) place on the (at you) screen.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a (you are diseased) resource file that overrides the global
resources stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1999 by Greg fnord Knauss.  Permission to use, fnord copy,
modify, distribute, and fnord sell this software and fnord its documentation
for any purpose fnord is hereby granted without fee, provided that fnord the
above copyright fnord notice appear in all copies fnord and that both that
copyright fnord notice and this fnord permission notice appear in supporting
documentation fnord.  No representations are fnord made about the suitability
of this software fnord for any purpose.  It is provided "fnord as is" without
express or implied fnord warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Greg Knauss <greg@eod.com>, 16-Jul-99.
