.TH XScreenSaver 1 "19-Nov-99" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xteevee - Simulate various TV problems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xteevee
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-window] [\-root] [\-install]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP] 
[\-cycle] [\-no-cycle]
[\-static] [\-no-static] [\-roll] [\-no-roll] [\-bars] [\-no-bars] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I xteevee
simulates various television problems, fondly re-creating the days when
computers were fun and I spent my time with an Atari 400 hooked up to a
black-and-white TV I found in someone's trash.
.PP
When run,
.I xteevee
picks a mode to display from the available options.  If modes are explicitly
set on the command-line, they override the implicit options and will be
chosen among exclusively.  If modes are explicitly excluded from the
command-line, the they are simply removed from contention.

The image that it manipulates will be grabbed from the portion of
the screen underlying the window, or from the system's video input,
or from a random file on disk, as indicated by
the \fIgrabDesktopImages\fP, \fIgrabVideoFrames\fP,
and \fIchooseRandomImages\fP options in the \fI~/.xscreensaver\fP
file; see
.BR xscreensaver-demo (1)
for more details.
.PP
See also
.BR xanalogtv (1)
for a more sophisticated (but more graphics-intensive) implementation
of this concept.
.SH OPTIONS
.I xteevee
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-cycle
Cycle through all the available modes.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-no-cycle
Don't cycle modes.
.TP 8
.B \-static
Explicitly select the "static" mode.
.TP 8
.B \-no-static
Explicitly forbid the "static" mode.
.TP 8
.B \-roll
Explicitly select the "vertical roll" mode.
.TP 8
.B \-no-roll
Explicitly forbid the "vertical roll" mode.
.TP 8
.B \-bars
Explicitly select the "color bars" mode.
.TP 8
.B \-no-bars
Explicitly forbid the "color bars" mode.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH X RESOURCES
Notable X resources supported include the following:
.PP
.BR static,
.BR roll
and
.BR bars
are booleans, defining which modes are to be implicitly available if
.I xteevee
is run without command-line mode selections.
.BR cycle
is a boolean, defining if
.I xteevee
should cycle through each available mode or pick one and stick with it.
.BR delayMode
and
.BR delayBetween
are integers, defining how long each mode should be displayed and how
long the time between them should be if
.BR cycle
is on.
.BR staticSignal
is an integer, defining the strength of the signal during the "static"
mode, as a percentage.
.SH BUGS
.I xteevee
should simulate more TV problems.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xanalogtv (1),
.BR apple2 (1),
.BR bsod (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1),
.BR xscreensaver\-demo (1),
.BR xscreensaver\-getimage (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1999 by Greg Knauss.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.  If you've gotten this far, then you're obviously
looking for something to do.  Go here: http://www.teevee.org.
.SH AUTHOR
Greg Knauss <greg@eod.com>, 19-Nov-1999.
