.\" @(#)xlock.man	4.13 99/03/08
.\" Copyright (c) 1991 - Patrick J. Naughton
.\" xlockmore updates from David A. Bagley
.TH XLOCK 1 "8 Mar 1999" "X11R6 Contrib"
.SH NAME
xlock \- Locks the local X display until a password is entered.
.sp
.IX xlock#(1) "" "\fLxlock\fP(1)"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xlock
[
.BI \-help
]
[
.BI \-version
]
[
.BI \-resources
]
[
.BI \-display " displayname"
]
[
.BI \-visual " visualname"
]
[
.BI \-name " resourcename"
]
[
.BI \-mode " modename"
]
[
.BI \-delay " usecs"
]
[
.BI \-batchcount " num"
]
[
.BI \-count " num"
]
[
.BI \-cycles " num"
]
[
.BI \-ncolors " num"
]
[
.BI \-size " num"
]
[
.BI \-saturation " value"
]
[
.BI \-erasemode " modename"
]
[
.BI \-erasedelay " usecs"
]
[
.BI -/+allowaccess
]
[
.BI \-vtlock " modename"
]
[
.BI -/+nolock
]
[
.BI -/+inwindow
]
[
.BI -/+inroot
]
[
.BI -/+remote
]
[
.BI -/+mono
]
[
.BI -/+allowroot
]
[
.BI -/+debug
]
[
.BI -/+description
]
[
.BI -/+echokeys
]
[
.BI -/+enablesaver
]
[
.BI -/+resetsaver
]
[
.BI -/+grabmouse
]
[
.BI -/+grabserver
]
[
.BI -/+install
]
[
.BI -/+mousemotion
]
[
.BI -/+sound
]
[
.BI -/+timeelapsed
]
[
.BI -/+usefirst
]
[
.BI -/+verbose
]
[
.BI \-nice " level"
]
[
.BI \-lockdelay " seconds"
]
[
.BI \-timeout " seconds"
]
[
.BI \-font " fontname"
]
[
.BI \-planfont " fontname"
]
[
.BI \-bg " color"
]
[
.BI \-fg " color"
]
[
.BI \-background " color"
]
[
.BI \-foreground " color"
]
[
.BI \-username " string"
]
[
.BI \-password " string"
]
[
.BI \-info " string"
]
[
.BI \-validate " string"
]
[
.BI \-invalid " string"
]
[
.BI \-geometry " geom"
]
[
.BI \-icongeometry " geom"
]
[
.BI \-glgeometry " geom"
]
[
.BI -/+fullrandom
]
[
.BI -/+wireframe
]
[
.BI -/+use3d
]
[
.BI \-delta3d " value"
]
[
.BI \-none3d " color"
]
[
.BI \-right3d " color"
]
[
.BI \-left3d " color"
]
[
.BI \-both3d " color"
]
[
.BI \-program " programname"
]
[
.BI \-messagesfile " formatted-filename"
]
[
.BI \-messagefile " filename"
]
[
.BI \-message " string"
]
[
.BI \-messagefont " fontname"
]
[
.BI \-bitmap " filename"
]
[
.BI \-neighbors " num"
]
[
.BI -/+mouse
]
[
.BI \-cpasswd " crypted-password"
]
[
.BI \-forceLogout " minutes"
]
[
.BI \-logoutButtonLabel " textstring"
]
[
.BI \-logoutButtonHelp " textstring"
]
[
.BI \-logoutFailedString " textstring"
]
[
.BI -/+dtsaver
]
[
.BI \-modulepath " path"
]
[
.BI \-locksound " string"
]
[
.BI \-infosound " string"
]
[
.BI \-validsound " string"
]
[
.BI \-invalidsound " string"
]
[
.BI \-startCmd " string"
]
[
.BI \-endCmd " string"
]
[
.BI \-logoutCmd " string"
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xlock
locks the X server till the user enters their password at the keyboard.
While
.B xlock
is running,
all new server connections are refused.
The screen saver is disabled.
The mouse cursor is turned off.
The screen is blanked and a changing pattern is put on the screen.
If a key or a mouse button is pressed then the user is prompted for the
password of the user who started
.BR xlock .

If the correct password is typed, then the screen is unlocked and the X
server is restored.  When typing the password Control-U and Control-H are
active as kill and erase respectively.  To return to the locked screen,
click in the small icon version of the changing pattern.

In the lower part of the password screen a text is displayed.  This
message is taken from the first file of the following that exists:
$HOME/.xlocktext, $HOME/.plan, or $HOME/.signature.

On systems which support new BSD style authentication, the password
may be prefixed by an authentication style followed by a colon
(i.e. "style:password").  See the login.conf(5) for more information
on authentication styles.

.SH "NOTE ON ETIQUETTE"
.I Xlock
should not be used on public terminals when there is a high demand for them.

If you find a public terminal that has been locked by another user and
there are no other terminals available, and the terminal appears to have
been left idle for a while (normally more than 15 minutes), it is fair to
try to reset the session in some manner.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
.BI \-help
Print options and a brief description to standard output.
.TP 5
.BI \-version
Print version number (if >= 4.00) to standard output.
.TP 5
.BI \-resources
Print default resource file to standard output.
.TP 5
.BI \-display \ displayname
The
.I display
option sets the X11 display to lock.
.B xlock
locks all available screens on a given server,
and restricts you to locking only a local server such as
.BI unix:0,
.BI localhost:0,
or
.BI :0
unless you set the
.B \-remote
option.
.TP 5
.BI \-visual \ visualname
.I visualname
which is one of "StaticGray", "GrayScale", "StaticColor", "PseudoColor",
"TrueColor", "DirectColor", or "default".  default used to set the screen's
default visual (the visual of the root window).
.TP 5
.BI \-name \ resourcename
.I resourcename
is used instead of
.B XLock
when looking for resources to configure
.BR xlock .
.TP 5
.BI \-mode \ modename
As of this writing there are over 90 display modes supported
(plus one more for random selection of one of these).
.TP 8
.B ant
Shows Langton's and Turk's generalized ants.
.TP 8
.B atlantis
Shows moving sharks/whales/dolphin.  May not be available depending on how
it was configured.
.TP 8
.B ball
Shows bouncing balls.
.TP 8
.B bat
Shows bouncing flying bats.
.TP 8
.B blot
Shows Rorschach's ink blot test.
.TP 8
.B bouboule
Shows Mimi's bouboule of moving stars.
.TP 8
.B bounce
Shows bouncing footballs.
.TP 8
.B braid
Shows random braids and knots.
.TP 8
.B bubble
Shows popping bubbles.
.TP 8
.B bubble3d
Shows Richard Jones's GL bubbles.  May not be available depending on how
it was configured.
.TP 8
.B bug
Shows Palmiter's bug evolution and a garden of Eden.
.TP 8
.B cartoon
Shows bouncing cartoons.  May not be available depending on how it was
configured.
.TP 8
.B clock
Shows Packard's oclock.
.TP 8
.B coral
Shows a coral reef.
.TP 8
.B crystal
Shows polygons in 2D plane groups.
.TP 8
.B daisy
Shows a meadow of daisies.
.TP 8
.B dclock
Shows a floating digital clock.
.TP 8
.B deco
Shows art as ugly as sin.
.TP 8
.B demon
Shows Griffeath's cellular automata.
.TP 8
.B dilemma
Shows Lloyd's Prisoner's Dilemma simulation.
.TP 8
.B discrete
Shows various discrete maps.
.TP 8
.B drift
Shows cosmic drifting flame fractals.
.TP 8
.B cage
Shows the Impossible Cage, an Escher-like GL scene.  May not be available
depending on how it was configured.
.TP 8
.B eyes
Shows eyes following a bouncing grelb.
.TP 8
.B fadeplot
Shows a fading plot of sine squared.
.TP 8
.B flag
Shows a waving flag of your operating system.
.TP 8
.B flame
Shows cosmic flame fractals.
.TP 8
.B flow
Shows dynamic strange attractors.
.TP 8
.B forest
Shows binary trees of a fractal forest.
.TP 8
.B galaxy
Shows crashing spiral galaxies.
.TP 8
.B gears
Shows GL's gears.  May not be available depending on how it was configured.
.TP 8
.B goop
Shows goop from a lava lamp.
.TP 8
.B grav
Shows orbiting planets.
.TP 8
.B helix
Shows string art.
.TP 8
.B hop
Shows real plane iterated fractals.
.TP 8
.B hyper
Shows spinning n-dimensional hypercubes.
.TP 8
.B ico
Shows a bouncing polyhedron. 
.TP 8
.B ifs
Shows a modified iterated function system. 
.TP 8
.B image
Shows randomly appearing logos. 
.TP 8
.B julia
Shows the Julia set. 
.TP 8
.B kaleid
Shows Brewster's Kaleidoscope.
.TP 8
.B kummpa
Shows kumppa.
.TP 8
.B laser
Shows spinning lasers.
.TP 8
.B life
Shows Conway's game of life.
.TP 8
.B life1d
Shows Wolfram's game of 1D life.
.TP 8
.B life3d
Shows Bays' game of 3D life.
.TP 8
.B lightning
Shows Keith's fractal lightning bolts.
.TP 8
.B lisa
Shows animated lissajous loops.
.TP 8
.B lissie
Shows lissajous worms.
.TP 8
.B loop
Shows Langton's self-producing loops.
.TP 8
.B mandelbrot
Shows mandelbrot sets.
.TP 8
.B marquee
Shows text.
.TP 8
.B maze
Shows a random maze and a depth first search solution.
.TP 8
.B moebius
Shows the Moebius Strip II, an Escher-like GL scene with ants.  May not be
available depending on how it was configured.
.TP 8
.B morph3d
Shows GL morphing polyhedra.  May not be available depending on how it
was configured.
.TP 8
.B mountain
Shows Papo's mountain range.
.TP 8
.B munch
Shows munching squares. 
.TP 8
.B nose
Shows a man with a big nose runs around spewing out text.
.TP 8
.B pacman
Shows Pacman(tm).
.TP 8
.B pipes
Shows a self-building pipe system.  May not be available depending on how it
was configured.
.TP 8
.B penrose
Shows Penrose's quasiperiodic tilings.
.TP 8
.B petal
Shows various GCD Flowers.
.TP 8
.B puzzle
Shows a puzzle being scrambled and then solved.
.TP 8
.B pyro
Shows fireworks.
.TP 8
.B qix
Shows spinning lines a la Qix(tm).
.TP 8
.B roll
Shows a rolling ball.
.TP 8
.B rotor
Shows Tom's Roto-Rooter.
.TP 8
.B rubik
Shows an auto-solving Rubik's Cube.  May not be available depending on how it
was configured.
.TP 8
.B shape 
Shows stippled rectangles, ellipses, and triangles.
.TP 8
.B sierpinski
Shows a Sierpinski's triangle.
.TP 8
.B slip
Shows slipping blits. 
.TP 8
.B sphere
Shows a bunch of shaded spheres.
.TP 8
.B spiral
Shows a helical locus of points.
.TP 8
.B spline
Shows colorful moving splines.
.TP 8
.B sproingies
Shows Sproingies!  Nontoxic.  Safe for pets and small children.
May not be available depending on how it was configured.
.TP 8
.B stairs
Shows Infinite Stairs, an Escher-like GL scene.
May not be available depending on how it was configured.
.TP 8
.B star 
Shows a star field with a twist.
.TP 8
.B starfish 
Shows starfish.
.TP 8
.B strange
Shows strange attractors.
.TP 8
.B superquadrics
Shows 3D mathematical shapes.  May not be available depending on how it
was configured.
.TP 8
.B swarm
Shows a swarm of bees following a wasp.
.TP 8
.B swirl
Shows animated swirling patterns.
.TP 8
.B tetris
Shows tetris.
.TP 8
.B thornbird
Shows an animated Bird in a Thorn Bush fractal map.
.TP 8
.B triangle
Shows a triangular mountain range.
.TP 8
.B tube
Shows an animated tube.
.TP 8
.B turtle
Shows turtle fractals.
.TP 8
.B vines
Shows fractal-like vines.
.TP 8
.B voters
Shows Dewdney's Voters.
.TP 8
.B wator
Shows Dewdney's Water-Torus planet of fish and sharks.
.TP 8
.B wire
Shows a random circuit with 2 electrons.
.TP 8
.B world
Shows spinning Earths.
.TP 8
.B worm
Shows wiggly worms.
.TP 8
.B xjack 
Shows Jack having one of those days.
.TP 8
.B blank
Shows nothing but a black screen.  Does not show up in random mode.
.TP 8
.B bomb
Shows a bomb and will autologout after a time.  Does not show up in random
mode and may be available depending on how it was configured.
.TP 8
.B random
Shows a random mode from above except blank (and bomb).

.TP 5
.BI \-delay \ usecs
The
.I delay
option sets the speed at which a mode will operate.  It simply sets the
number of microseconds to delay between batches of animations.  In
blank mode, it is important to set this to some small number of seconds,
because the keyboard and mouse are only checked after each delay, so you
cannot set the delay too high, but a delay of zero would needlessly
consume cpu checking for mouse and keyboard input in a tight loop, since
blank mode has no work to do.
.TP 5
.BI \-count \ num
The
.I batchcount
option sets number of
.I things
to do per batch to
.I num .

In ant mode this refers the number of ants.

In atlantis mode it is the number of sharks.

In ball mode it is the number of balls.

In bat mode it is the number of bats, could be less because of conflicts.

In blot mode this refers to the number of pixels rendered in the same color.

In bouboule mode it is the number of stars.

In bounce mode it is the number of balls, could be less because of conflicts.

In braid mode it is the upper bound number of strands.

In bubble mode it is the number of bubbles.

In bubble3d mode it is the number of bubbles.

In bug mode it is the number of bugs, could be less because of conflicts.

In cage mode it is means nothing.

In cartoon mode it means nothing.

In clock mode it is the percentage of the screen, but less than 100%.

In coral mode it is the number of seeds.

In crystal mode it is the number of polygons.

In daisy mode it is the number flowers that make a meadow.

In dclock mode it means nothing.

In deco mode it is the depth.

In demon mode this refers the number of colors.

In dilemma mode this refers the number of initial defectors.

In discrete mode it is the number of points.

In drift mode it is the number of levels to recurse (larger = more complex).

In eyes mode it is the number of eyes.

In fadeplot mode it is the number of steps.

In flag mode it means nothing.

In flame mode it is the number of levels to recurse (larger = more complex).

In flow mode it is the number of bees.

In forest mode it is the number trees that make a forest.

In galaxy mode it means the number of galaxies.

In gears mode it is the number of degrees to rotate the set of gears by.

In goop mode it is the number of blobs per plane.

In grav mode it is the number of planets.

In helix mode it means nothing.

In hop mode this refers to the number of pixels rendered in the same color.

In hyper mode it the number of dimensions.

In ico mode it is the ith platonic solid.

In ifs mode it means nothing.

In image mode it means it is the number of logos on screen at once.

In julia mode it is the depth of recursion.

In kaleid mode it is the number of pens.

In kumppa mode it means nothing.

In laser mode it is the number lasers.

In life mode it is the number of generations before a glider is introduced.

In life1d mode it means nothing.

In life3d mode it is the number of generations before a glider is introduced.

In lisa mode it is the number of loops.

In lissie mode it is the number of worms.

In loop mode it means nothing.

In mandelbrot mode it is the order.

In marquee mode it means nothing.

In maze mode it means nothing.

In moebius mode it is means nothing.

In morph3d mode it is the ith platonic solid.

In mountain mode it is the number of mountains. 

In munch mode it means nothing. 

In nose mode it means nothing.

In qix mode it is the number of points.

In pacman mode it means the number of ghosts.

In penrose mode it means nothing.

In petal mode it the greatest random number of petals.

In pipes mode it shows different joints, 0 random, 1 spherical, 2 bolted
elbow, 3 elbow, and 4 alternating.

In puzzle mode it the number of moves.

In pyro mode it is the maximum number flying rockets at one time.

In roll mode it is the number of points.

In rotor mode it is the number of rotor thingys which whirr...

In rubik mode it is the number of moves.

In shape mode it means nothing.

In sierpinski mode it is the number of points. 

In slip mode it means nothing.

In sphere mode it means nothing.

In spiral mode it is the number of spirals.

In spline mode it is the number of points "splined".

In sproingies mode it is the number of sproingies.

In stairs mode it is means nothing.

In star mode it is the number of stars on the screen at once.

In starfish mode it means nothing.

In strange mode it means nothing.

In superquadrics mode its the number of horizontal and vertical lines in
the superquadric. 

In swirl mode it means the number of "knots".

In swarm mode it is the number of bees.

In thornbird mode it is the number of points.

In triangular mode it is the number of mountains. 

In tube mode it is a rectangle (= 1), an ellipse (= 2), or a polygon if
greater.

In turtle mode it means nothing.

In vines mode it is draw a complete vine (= 0) or a portion (= 1).

In voters mode it means the number of parties, 2 or 3.

In wator mode it means the breed time for the fish.

In wire mode it means the length of the circuit.

In world mode it is the number of worlds.

In worm mode it is the number of worms.

In blank mode it means nothing.

In bomb mode it means the number of minutes to autologout.

A negative
.I count
allows for randomness.  The range from the minimum allowed nonnegative
.I count
for a particular mode to the
ABS(
.I count
) (or maximum allowed
.I count
, whichever is less).
.TP 5
.BI \-batchcount \ num
The
.I batchcount
option is depreciated but should still work as
.I count.
.TP 5
.BI \-cycles \ num
The
.I cycles
option sets the number of cycles until time out for ant, blot, braid,
bug, clock, crystal, daisy, deco, demon, dilemma, discrete, eyes,
flag, flow, forest, galaxy, helix, hop, hyper, ico,
laser, life, life1d, life3d, lisa, lissie, loop, mandelbrot, mountain,
petal, sierpinski, shape, spline +erase, thornbird, triangle, tube,
voters, wator, and wire.  For worm it is the length of the lines,
for atlantis it is the shark speed,
for fadeplot, julia and spiral it is the length of the trail of dots,
munch it is the minimum size of the squares,
for kaleid it is the % of black,
for qix it is the number of lines,
for spline -erase it means the number of
splines * 64 (for compatibility with +erase),
for gears it is the number of degrees to increment the spin of each gear by,
for pipes it is the number of systems to draw before clearing the screen,
for rubik it is the number of steps to complete a 90 move,
for superquadrics it is the number of frames it takes to morph from one
shape to another.  For others it means nothing.
.TP 5
.BI \-size \ num
The
.I size
option sets the size maximum size of a star in bouboule, pyro and star,
size of ball in ball and bounce, size of bat in bat,
maximum size of bubble in bubble, size of clock in clock,
minimum size of rectangles in deco, size of the polygon in crystal,
size of polyhedron in ico, size of lissie in lissie, size of dots of flag,
for kaleid it is the symmetry,
width of maze hallway, size of side of penrose tile, radius of loop in lisa,
radius of ball in roll, number of corners in sierpinski,
size of tube in tube, width of worm in worm, line width in rotor,
size of cells in ant, bug, dilemma, life, life1d, pacman, tetris, voters,
wator, and wire.  In pipes it is the maximum length of a system.
In atlantis it is the shark size.
In sproingies it is the size of the screen.  A negative number
allows for randomness, similar to
.I count.
.TP 5
.BI \-ncolors \ num
The
.I ncolors
option sets the maximum number of colors to be used.
.TP 5
.BI \-saturation \ value
The
.I saturation
option sets saturation of the color ramp used to
.I value .
0 is grayscale and 1 is very rich color.  0.4 is a nice pastel.
.TP 5
.BI \-erasemode \ modename
As of this writing there are over 9 erase modes supported
(if its not chosen its assumed random).
The erase modes are random_lines, random_squares, venetian, triple_wipe,
quad_wipe, circle_wipe, three_circle_wipe, squaretate, no_fade.
.TP 5
.BI \-erasedelay \ usecs
The
.I erasedelay
option sets the number of microseconds for steps of the 
.B erasemode
(a setting of 0 and the
.B erasemode
is bypassed).
.TP 5
.B +/-nolock
The
.I nolock
option causes
.B xlock
to only draw the patterns and not lock the display.
A key press or a mouse click will terminate the screen saver.
.TP 5
.B -/+inwindow
Runs
.B xlock
in a window, so that you can iconify, move, or resize it and
still use your screen for other stuff.  When running in a window,
.B xlock
no longer locks your screen, it just looks good.
.TP 5
.B -/+inroot
Runs
.B xlock
in your root window.  Like the
.I inwindow
option it no longer locks the screen, it just looks good.
.TP 5
.B -/+remote
The
.I remote
option tells
.B xlock
to not stop you from locking remote X11 servers.  This option should be
used with care and is intended mainly to lock X11 terminals which cannot
run
.B xlock
locally.  If you lock someone else's workstation, they will have to know
.B your
password to unlock it.  Using
.I +remote
overrides any resource derived values for
.I remote
and prevents
.B xlock
from being used to lock other X11 servers.  (Use `+' instead of `-' to
override resources for other options that can take the `+' modifier
similarly.)
.TP 5
.B -/+mono
The
.I mono
option causes
.B xlock
to display monochrome, (black and white) pixels rather than the default
colored ones on color displays.
.TP 5
.B -/+allowaccess
This option is required for servers which do not allow clients to modify
the host access control list.  It is also useful if you need to run x
clients on a server which is locked for some reason...  When
.I allowaccess
is true, the X11 server is left open for clients to attach and thus
lowers the inherent security of this lock screen.  A side effect of using
this option is that if
.B xlock
is killed -KILL, the access control list is not lost.
.TP 5
.BI \-vtlock \ modename
This option is used on a XFree86 system to manage VT switching in 
[off|noswitch|switch|restore] mode.
.TP 10
.I off
means no VT switch locking.
.TP 10
.I switch
means VT switch locking + switching to xlock VT when activated.
.TP 10
.I restore
means VT switch locking + switching to xlock VT when activated +
switching back to previous VT when desactivated.
.TP 10
.I noswitch
means VT switch locking only when xlock VT is active.
.TP 5
.B -/+allowroot
The
.I allowroot
option allows the root password to unlock the server as well as the user
who started
.BR xlock .
May not be able to turn this on and off depending on your system and how
.B xlock
was configured.
.TP 5
.B -/+debug
Allows
.B xlock
to be debugged by doing all but locking the screen.
.TP 5
.B -/+description
The
.I description
option causes
.B xlock
shows a mode description above password window.  The default is to
show this description. 
.TP 5
.B -/+echokeys
The
.I echokeys
option causes
.B xlock
to echo '?' characters for each key typed into the password prompt.
Some consider this a security risk, so the default is to not echo
anything. 
.TP 5
.B -/+enablesaver
By default
.B xlock
will disable the normal X server's screen saver since
it is in effect a replacement for it.  Since it is possible to set delay
parameters long enough to cause phosphor burn on some displays, this
option will turn back on the default screen saver which is very careful
to keep most of the screen black.
.TP 5
.B -/+resetsaver
By default
.B xlock
will call XResetScreenSaver.  This may be undesirable with DPMS monitors.
.TP 5
.B -/+grabmouse
The
.I grabmouse
option causes
.B xlock
to grab the mouse and keyboard, this is the default.
.B xlock
can not lock the screen without this.
.TP 5
.B -/+grabserver
The
.I grabserver
option causes
.B xlock
to grab the server.  This is not usually needed but some unsecure X servers
can be defeated without this.
.TP 5
.B -/+install
Allows
.B xlock
to install its own colormap if
.B xlock
runs out of colors.
May not work on with some window managers (fvwm) and does not work with
the -inroot option.
.TP 5
.B -/+mousemotion
Allows you to turn on and off the sensitivity to the mouse to bring up
the password window.
.TP 5
.B -/+sound
Allows you to turn on and off sound if installed with the capability.
.TP 5
.B -/+timeelapsed
Allows you to find out how long a machine is locked so you can complain
to an administrator that someone is hogging a machine.
.TP 5
.B -/+usefirst
The
.I usefirst
option causes
.B xlock
to use the keystroke which got you to the password screen as the first
character in the password.  The default is to ignore the first key
pressed.
.TP 5
.B -/+verbose
Verbose mode, tells what options it is going to use.
.TP 5
.BI \-nice \ nicelevel
The
.I nice
option sets system nicelevel of the
.B xlock
process to
.I nicelevel .
.TP 5
.BI \-lockdelay \ seconds
The
.I lockdelay
option sets the number of
.I seconds
before the screen needs a password to be unlocked.  Good for use with
an autolocking mechanism like xautolock(1).
.TP 5
.BI \-timeout \ seconds
The
.I timeout
option sets the number of
.I seconds
before the password screen will time out.
.TP 5
.BI \-font \ fontname
The
.I font
option sets the font to be used on the prompt screen.
.TP 5
.BI \-planfont \ fontname
option sets the font to be used for the text that is displayed in
the lower part of the password screen.
.TP 5
.BI \-fg \ color
The
.I fg
option sets the color of the text on the password screen to
.I color .
.TP 5
.BI \-bg \ color
The
.I bg
option sets the color of the background on the password screen to
.I color .
.TP 5
.BI \-foreground \ color
The
.I foreground
option sets the color of the text on the password screen to
.I color .
.TP 5
.BI \-background \ color
The
.I background
option sets the color of the background on the password screen to
.I color .
.TP 5
.BI \-username \ string
Text
.I string
is shown in front of user name, defaults to "Name: ".
.TP 5
.BI \-password \ string
Text
.I string
is the password prompt string, defaults to "Password: ".
.TP 5
.BI \-info \ string
Text
.I string
is an informational message to tell the user what to do, defaults to
"Enter password to unlock; select icon to lock.".
.TP 5
.BI \-validate \ string
Text
.I string
is a message shown while validating the password, defaults to
"Validating login..."
.TP 5
.BI \-invalid \ string
Text
.I string
is a message shown when password is invalid, defaults to
"Invalid login."
.TP 5
.BI \-geometry \ geom
The
.I geometry
option sets
.I geom
the size and offset of the lock window (normally the entire screen).
The entire screen format is still used for entering the password.  The
purpose is to see the screen even though it is locked.  This should be
used with caution since many of the modes will fail if the windows
are far from square or are too small (size must be greater than 0x0).
This should also be used with -enablesaver to protect screen from
phosphor burn.
.TP 5
.BI \-icongeometry \ geom
The
.I icongeometry
option sets
.I geom
the size of the iconic screen (normally 64x64) seen when entering the
password.  This should be used with caution since many of the modes will
fail if the windows are far from square or are too small (size must be
greater than 0x0).  The greatest size is 256x256.  There should be some
limit so users could see who has locked the screen.  Position
information of icon is ignored.
.TP 5
.BI \-glgeometry \ geom
The
.I glgeometry
option sets
.I geom
the size of the screen for gl modes.  Not normally available or needed.
.TP 5
.B -/+fullrandom
Turn on/off randomness options within modes.  Not implemented on all
mode options.
.TP 5
.B -/+wireframe
Turn on/off wireframe, available on atlantis, daisy, gears, life3d, mountain,
sproingies, superquadrics, and triangle.
.TP 5
.B -/+use3d
Turn on/off 3d view, available on bouboule, pyro, star, and worm.
.TP 5
.BI \-delta3d \ value
Space between the center of your 2 eyes for 3d mode.
.TP 5
.BI \-none3d \ color
Color used for empty size in 3d mode.
.TP 5
.BI \-right3d \ color
Color used for right eye in 3d mode.
.TP 5
.BI \-left3d \ color
Color used for left eye in 3d mode.
.TP 5
.BI \-both3d \ color
Color used for overlapping images for left and right eye in 3d mode.
.TP 5
.BI \-program \ programname
The
.I program
option sets the program to be used as the fortune generator.  Currently
used only for marquee and nose modes.
.TP 5
.BI \-messagesfile \ formatted-filename
The
.I messagesfile
option sets the file to be used as the fortune generator.  The first
entry is the number of fortunes, the next line contains the first fortune.
Fortunes begin with a "%%" on a line by itself.  Currently used only for
marquee and nose modes.  If one exists, it takes precedence over the
fortune program.
.TP 5
.BI \-messagefile \ filename
The
.I messagefile
option sets the file whose contents are displayed.  Currently
used only for marquee and nose modes.  If one exists, it takes
precedence over the fortune program and messagesfile.
.TP 5
.BI \-message \ textstring
The
.I message
option sets the text to be displayed in a mode.  Currently used only for
flag, marquee and nose modes.  If one exists, it takes precedence over the
fortune program, messagesfile and message.
.TP 5
.BI \-messagefont \ fontname
The
.I messagefont
option sets the font to be used in the mode.  Currently used only for
flag, marquee, and nose modes.
.TP 5
.BI \-bitmap \ filename
The
.I bitmap
option sets the xbm, xpm, or ras file to be displayed with flag, image, life,
life1d, maze, or puzzle mode.  For eyes and pacman only a xbm file is
accepted.  Certain modes reject the bitmap if too big.
.TP 5
.BI \-neighbors \ num
The
.I neighbors 
option sets the number of neighbors of a cell to 3, 4, 6, 9 (may not have
real mathematical meaning), or 12 for several automata modes.  Setting it to
0 typically randomizes this, except in life where it is set to 8.
.TP 5
.BI -/+mouse
Turn on and off mouse interaction in
.I eyes, julia, and swarm.
.sp
.SH "MORE OPTIONS (these may not be available)"
.TP 5
.BI \-cpasswd  \ crypted-password
The
.I cpasswd
option sets the key to be this text string to unlock
.B xlock
instead of password file.
.TP 5
.BI \-forceLogout \ minutes
The
.I forceLogout
option sets
.I minutes
to auto-logout.
.TP 5
.BI \-logoutButtonLabel \ string
Text
.I string
is a message shown inside logout button when logout button is displayed.
Defaults to
"Logout".
.TP 5
.BI \-logoutButtonHelp \ string
Text
.I string
is a message shown outside logout button when logout button is
displayed.  Defaults to
"Click the \\"Logout\\" button to log out current\\n
user and make workstation available."
.TP 5
.BI \-logoutFailedString \ string
Text
.I string
is a message shown when a logout is attempted and fails.
Defaults to
"Logout attempt FAILED.\\n
Current user could not be automatically logged out."
.TP 5
.B -/+dtsaver
Turn on/off CDE Saver Mode.  This option is only available if CDE
support was compiled in.
.TP 5
.BI \-modulepath \ path
The
.I modulepath
option sets the
.I directories
that
.B xlock
searches for mode modules to load.  It is a colon separated list of
directories to search. If "%S" is included in the path, it is replaced
by the default modulepath.  To add a private module directory to the
default path, use something like '%S:~/mymoduledir' as the path.  This
option is only available if module support was compiled in.
.TP 5
.BI \-locksound \ string
Text
.I string
references sound to use at lock time.  Default sound, male voice:
"Thank you, for your cooperation."
.TP 5
.BI \-infosound \ string
Text
.I string
references sound to use for information.  Default sound, male voice:
"Identify please."
.TP 5
.BI \-validsound \ string
Text
.I string
references sound to when a password is valid.  Default sound, female voice:
"Complete."
.TP 5
.BI \-invalidsound \ string
Text
.I string
references sound to when a password is invalid.  Default sound, female
voice: "I am not programmed to give you that information."
.TP 5
.BI \-startCmd \ string
Text
.I string
command to execute when the screen is locked. Commonly used instructions include:
"zaway". This command, if still running when the screensaver exist, will be killed.
.TP 5
.BI \-endCmd \ string
Text
.I string
command to execute when the screen is unlocked.
.TP 5
.BI \-logoutCmd \ string
Text
.I string
command to execute when the program logs the user out (either via the autologout
or by pressing the logout button).
.TP 5
.BI \-mailCmd \ string
Text
.I string
command to execute when the program to check mail.
.TP 5
.BI \-mailIcon \ string
Text
.I string
of file for the "mail arrived" bitmap.
.TP 5
.BI \-nomailIcon \ string
Text
.I string
of file for the "no mail" bitmap.
.TP 5
.B -dpmsstandby \ seconds
Allows one to set DPMS Standby for monitor (0 is defined as infinite).
(Horizontal sync on, Vertical sync off, RGB guns off, power supply on,
tube filaments energized, (screen saver mode).  Typical 17 inch screen...
110 out of 120 watts with a 3 sec recovery time.)  This option is only
available if DPMS support was compiled in.
.TP 5
.B -dpmssuspend \ seconds
Allows one to set DPMS Suspend for monitor (0 is defined as infinite).
(Horizontal sync off, Vertical sync on, RGB guns off, power supply off,
tube filaments energized.  Typical 17 inch screen ...  15 out of 120 watts
with a 3 sec recovery time.)  This option is only available if DPMS support
was compiled in.
.TP 5
.B -dpmsoff \ seconds
Allows one to set DPMS Power Off for monitor (0 is defined as infinite).
(Horizontal sync off, Vertical sync off, Small auxiliary circuit stays on
to monitor the HS/VS signals to enable power on when data needs to be
displayed on the screen.  Typical 17 inch screen ...  5 out of 120 watts with
a 10 sec recovery time.)  This option is only available if DPMS support was
compiled in.
.sp
.SH "SPECIAL MODE DEPENDENT OPTIONS"
.TP 5
.BI \-whalespeed \ num
Allows one to set the speed of the whales and dolphin in
.I atlantis.
.TP 5
.BI -/+truchet
Turn on and off Truchet lines (trail) in
.I ant.
.TP 5
.BI -/+boil
Turn on and off having the bubbles bubble up in
.I bubble.
.TP 5
.BI \-nx \ num
Allows one to set the number of unit cells in x-direction in
.I crystal.
.TP 5
.BI \-ny \ num
Allows one to set the number of unit cells in y-direction in
.I crystal.
.TP 5
.BI -/+centre
Turn on and off the centering on screen in
.I crystal.
.TP 5
.BI -/+maxsize
Turn on and off the centering on screen in
.I crystal.
.TP 5
.BI -/+cell
Turn on and off the drawing of unit cell in
.I crystal.
.TP 5
.BI -/+grid
Turn on and off the drwing of grid of unit cells (if -cell is on) in
.I crystal.
.TP 5
.BI -/+shift
Turn on and off colour cycling in
.I crystal.
.TP 5
.BI -/+forest
Turn on and off the tropical deforest (hectares/acres) counter in
.I dclock.
.TP 5
.BI -/+popex
Turn on and off the population explosion counter in
.I dclock.
.TP 5
.BI \-bonus \ value
Allows one to set the bonus for cheating... between 1.0 and 4.0 in
.I dilemma.
.TP 5
.BI -/+garden
Turn off and on garden look in
.I daisy.
.TP 5
.BI -/+conscious
Turn off and on self-awareness in
.I dilemma.
.TP 5
.BI -/+grow
Turn on and off growing fractals (else they are animated) for
.I drift.
.TP 5
.BI -/+liss
Turn on and off using lissajous figures to get points for
.I drift.
.TP 5
.BI -/+noants
Turn off and on ants in
.I moebius.
.TP 5
.BI -/+solidmoebius
Turn on and off solid Mobius strip in
.I moebius.
.TP 5
.BI -/+invert
Turn on and off inverting of the
.I flag.
.TP 5
.BI -/+tracks
Turn on and off star tracks in
.I galaxy.
.TP 5
.BI -/+decay
Turn on and off decaying orbits for
.I grav.
.TP 5
.BI -/+trail
Turn on and off decaying trail of dots for
.I grav.
.TP 5
.BI -/+ellipse
Turn on and off ellipse format in
.I helix.
.TP 5
.BI -/+martin
Turn on and off Barry Martin's square root
.I hop.
.BI -/+popcorn
Turn on and off Clifford A. Pickover's popcorn
.I hop.
.TP 5
.BI -/+ejk1...ejk6
Turn on and off Ed J. Kubaitis'
.I hops.
.TP 5
.BI -/+rr
Turn on and off Renaldo Recuerdo's
.I hop.
.TP 5
.BI -/+jong
Turn on and off Jong's
.I hop.
.TP 5
.BI -/+sine
Turn on and off Barry Martin's sine
.I hop.
.TP 5
.BI -/+disconnected
Turn on and off disconnected pen movement in
.I kaleid.
.TP 5
.BI -/+serial
Turn on and off sequential allocation of colors in
.I kaleid.
.TP 5
.BI -/+alternate
Turn on and off alternate rotated display mode
.I kaleid.
.TP 5
.BI -/+quad
Turn on and off quad mirrored/rotated mode similar to size 4 in
.I kaleid.
.TP 5
.BI -/+oct
Turn on and off oct mirrored/rotated mode similar to size 8 in
.I kaleid.
.TP 5
.BI -/+linear
Turn on and off Cartesian/Polar coordinate mode in 
.I kaleid.
.TP 5
.BI \-rule \ S<neighborhood>/B<neighborhood>
Allows one to set
.I life
survival and birth parameters.  For example, Conway's rule is S23/B3.
Special parameters: P, picks a random rule from all rules that have known
patterns; G, picks a random rule from all rules that have known gliders.
.TP 5
.BI \-lifefile \ filename
The
.I lifefile
option sets the lifeform.  Only one format is currently supported, the
#P xlife format.
.TP 5
.BI -/+callahan
Turn on and off Paul Callahan's S2b34/B2a hexagonal
.I life.
.TP 5
.BI -/+andreen
Turn on and off Bob Andreen's S2a2b4a/B2a3a4b hexagonal
.I life.
.TP 5
.BI -/+totalistic
Turn on and off totalistic rules for
.I life1d.
If this is off then it follows rules of the LCAU collection.  These
rules may not be symmetric and are more general.
.TP 5
.BI \-rule3d \ S<neighborhood>/B<neighborhood>
Allows one to set
.I life3d
survival and birth parameters.  For example, Bay's rules are S45/B5, S567/B6
S56/B5, and S67/B67.  There is currently no way of accessing neighborhoods
beyond 9.  Special parameters: P, picks a random rule from all rules that
have known patterns; G, picks a random rule from all rules that have known
gliders.
.TP 5
.BI \-life3dfile \ filename
The
.I life3dfile
option sets the lifeform.  Only one format is currently supported, similar
to the #P xlife format.  2 linefeeds in a row are assumed to advance the
depth.
.TP 5
.BI -/+additive
Turn on and off additive functions mode in
.I lisa.
.TP 5
.BI -/+ammann
Turn on and off lines for
.I penrose.
.TP 5
.BI \-increment \ value
Allows fine adjustments to order in
.I mandelbrot.
.TP 5
.BI -/+erase
Turn on and off erasing for
.I spline.
If this option is on,
.I cycles
is divided by 64 to compute the number of lines, so as to be compatible
when using -fullrandom.
.TP 5
.BI \-factory \ num
Number of extra factory parts in 
.I pipes.
.TP 5
.BI -/+fisheye
Turn on if you want a zoomed-in view of
.I pipes.
.TP 5
.BI -/+tightturns
Turn on if you want the
.I pipes
to bend more often. 
.TP 5
.BI -/+rotatepipes
Turn on if you want the pipe system rotated in
.I pipes.
.TP 5
.BI -/+complete
Turn on or off complete graph morphing in
.I qix.
.TP 5
.BI -/+hideshuffling
Turn on or off hidden shuffle phase for
.I rubik.
.TP 5
.BI -/+border
Turn on or off borders in
.I shape.
.TP 5
.BI -/+ shape
Turn on or off shadowing in
.I shape.
.TP 5
.BI -/+ shape
Turn on or off stippling in
.I shape.
.TP 5
.BI \-trek \ num
If its a high number you will see the space ship all the time in
.I star.
.TP 5
.BI -/+rock
Turn on and off rocks for
.I star.
If this is off, stars will be seen instead.
.TP 5
.BI -/+straight
Turn on if
.I star
gets you motion sick.
.TP 5
.BI \-cyclepeed \ num
Set speed of cycling in
.I starfish.
.TP 5
.BI \-rotation \ num
Set rotation velocity in
.I starfish.
.TP 5
.BI \-thickness \ num
Set thickness in
.I starfish.
.TP 5
.BI -/+cycle
Turn on and off cycle for
.I starfish.
.TP 5
.BI -/+rock
Turn on and off blob for
.I starfish.
.TP 5
.BI \-spinspeed \ num
Set speed of rotation, in degrees per frame for
.I superquadrics.
.TP 5
.BI \-duration \ seconds
Allows one to set a duration for a mode in
.I random.
Duration of 0 is defined as infinite.
.TP 5
.BI \-modelist \ textstring
Allows one to pass a list of files to randomly display to
.I random.
"all" will get all files but blank (and bomb if compiled in). "all,blank"
will get all modes.  "all,-image bounce,+blank" will get all modes but
image and bounce.  "bug wator" will get only bug and wator.  "allgl" will
get only the GL modes if compiled in, all-allgl will get all but the GL
modes, "allnice" will weed out high cpu usage modes (as well as hackers and
gl modes).  "allxpm" will get all modes that use xpm.  "allwrite" will get
all modes that take advantage of writable colormaps (not including xpm).
"all3d" will get all the modes that support this option.  "allmouse"
will get all the modes that support mouse interaction.  Similarly,
"allautomata" for automata modes, "allfractal" for fractal modes,
"allgeometry" for geometry modes, "allspace" for space modes.  The random
mode itself can not be referenced.
.TP 5
.BI -/+sequential
Turn on non-random
.I random
option.
.sp
.SH **WARNING**
.B xlock
can appear to hang if it is competing with a high-priority process for
the CPU. For example, if
.B xlock
is started after a process with 'nice -20'
(high priority),
.B xlock
will take  considerable amount of time to respond.
.sp
.SH "SHADOW PASSWORDS"
If the machine is using a shadow password system, then
.B xlock
may not be set up to get the real password and so must be given one
of its own. This can be either on the command line, via the
.B -cpasswd
option,
or in the file
.BR $HOME/.xlockrc ,
with the first taking precedence.  In both cases an encrypted password
is expected (see makekey(8)).  If neither is given, then
.B xlock
will prompt for a password and will use that, also storing an
encrypted version of it in
.B $HOME/.xlockrc
for future use.
.sp
.SH BUGS
"kill -KILL
.B xlock
" causes the server that was locked to be unusable, since all hosts
(including localhost) were removed from the access control list
to lock out new X clients, and since
.B xlock
could not catch SIGKILL, it terminated before restoring the access
control list.  This will leave the X server in a state where
\fI"you can no longer connect to that server,
and this operation cannot be reversed unless you reset the server."\fP
		-From the X11R4 Xlib Documentation, Chapter 7.
.br
NCD terminals do not allow xlock to remove all the hosts from the access
control list.  Therefore you will need to use the "-remote" and
"-allowaccess" switches.  If you happen to run without "-allowaccess" on an
NCD terminal,
.B xlock
will not work and you will need to reboot the terminal, or simply go into
the SETUP menus, under 'Network Parameters', and turn off TCP/IP access
control. 
.br
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1), Xlib Documentation.
.sp
.SH AUTHOR
Maintained by:
.RS
David Albert Bagley, <\fIbagleyd@bigfoot.com\fP>
.RE
.sp
The latest version is currently at:
.RS
\fIftp://ftp.tux.org/pub/tux/bagleyd/xlockmore\fP
.br
\fIftp://ftp.x.org/contrib/applications\fP
.RE
.sp
Original Author:
.RS
Patrick J. Naughton, <\fInaughton@eng.sun.com\fP>
.br
Mailstop 21-14
.br
Sun Microsystems Laboratories, Inc.
.br
Mountain View, CA  94043
.br
415/336-1080
.RE
.sp
with many additional contributors.
.sp
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 1988-91 by Patrick J. Naughton
.br
Copyright (c) 1993-98 by David A. Bagley
.sp
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation. 
.br
The original BSD daemon is Copyright (c) 1988 Marshall Kirk McKusick.
All Rights Reserved.
.br
DEC, HP, IBM, Linux, SCO, SGI, and Sun icons have their respective
copyrights.
