.TH XScreenSaver 1 "20-May-2003 (4.10)" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xscreensaver-getimage-video - put a video frame on the root window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xscreensaver-getimage-video
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\--verbose] [\--stdout]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIxscreensaver\-getimage\-video\fP program is a helper program
for the xscreensaver hacks that manipulate images.  Specifically, it
is invoked by
.BR xscreensaver\-getimage (1)
as needed.  This is not a user-level command.

This program grabs a random frame of video from the system's video input,
and then loads it on the root window.  It does this by figuring out which
frame-grabbing programs are installed on the system, and invoking the
first one it finds.   Then it runs
.BR xscreensaver\-getimage\-file (1)
to load that image onto the root window.
.SH OPTIONS
.I xscreensaver-getimage-video
accepts the following options:
.TP 4
.B --verbose
Print diagnostics.
.TP 4
.B --stdout
Instead of loading the image onto the root window, write it to stdout
as a PBM file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1),
.BR xscreensaver\-demo (1),
.BR xscreensaver\-getimage (1),
.BR xscreensaver\-getimage\-file (1),
.BR bttvgrab (1),
.BR qcam (1),
.BR streamer (1),
.BR atitv (1),
.BR vidtomem (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2001 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy,
modify, distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for
any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that the above
copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
No representations are made about the suitability of this software for
any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski <jwz@jwz.org>, 14-Apr-01
