.TH XScreenSaver 1 "20-Mar-2005 (4.21)" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xscreensaver\-text - prints some text to stdout, for use by screen savers.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xscreensaver\-text
[\--verbose]
[\--columns \fIN\fP]
[\--text \fISTRING\fP]
[\--file \fIPATH\fP]
[\--program \fICMD\fP]
[\--url \fIURL\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIxscreensaver\-text\fP script prints out some text for use by
various screensavers, according to the options set in the ~/.xscreensaver
file.  This may dump the contents of a file, run a program, or load a URL.
.EE
.SH OPTIONS
.I xscreensaver\-text
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-\-columns \fIN\fP or \-\-cols \fIN\fP
Where to wrap lines; default 72 columns.
.TP 8
.B \-\-verbose \fRor\fP \-v
Print diagnostics to stderr.  Multiple \fI-v\fP switches increase the
amount of output.
.PP
Command line options may be used to override the settings in the 
~/.xscreensaver file:
.TP 8
.B \-\-string \fISTRING\fP
Print the given string.  It may contain % escape sequences as per
.BR strftime (2).
.TP 8
.B \-\-file \fIPATH\fP
Print the contents of the given file.  If --cols is specified, re-wrap
the lines; otherwise, print them as-is.
.TP 8
.B \-\-program \fICMD\fP
Run the given program and print its output.  If --cols is specified,
re-wrap the output.
.TP 8
.B \-\-url \fIHTTP-URL\fP
Download and print the contents of the HTTP document.  If it contains 
HTML, RSS, or Atom, it will be converted to plain-text.

Note: this re-downloads the document every time it is run!  It might
be considered abusive for you to point this at a web server that you
do not control!
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 4
.B HTTP_PROXY\fR or \fPhttp_proxy
to get the default HTTP proxy host and port.
.SH BUGS
The RSS and Atom output is always ISO-8859-1, regardless of locale.

URLs should be cached, use "If-Modified-Since", and obey "Expires".
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xscreensaver-demo (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1),
.BR fortune (1),
.BR phosphor (1),
.BR apple2 (1),
.BR starwars (1),
.BR fontglide (1),
.BR dadadodo (1),
.BR webcollage (1),
.I http://www.livejournal.com/stats/latest-rss.bml,
.BR driftnet (1),
.BR EtherPEG ,
.BR EtherPeek
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2005 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy, modify,
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski <jwz@jwz.org>, 20-Mar-2005.
