.TH XScreenSaver 1 "07-Sep-2003 (4.13)" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xscreensaver-getimage-desktop - put a desktop image on the root window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xscreensaver-getimage-desktop
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\--verbose] [\--stdout]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIxscreensaver\-getimage\-desktop\fP program is a helper program
for the xscreensaver hacks that manipulate images.  Specifically, it
is invoked by
.BR xscreensaver\-getimage (1)
as needed.  This is not a user-level command.

This program is only used on MacOS X / XDarwin systems, because
on those systems, it's necessary to use the
.BR screencapture (1)
program to get an image of the desktop -- the usual X11
mechanism for grabbing the screen doesn't work on OSX.

This script works by running
.BR screencapture (1)
to get a PDF, then converting it to a JPEG with
.BR pdf2jpeg (1),
then loading it onto the window with
.BR xscreensaver\-getimage\-file (1).
.SH OPTIONS
.I xscreensaver-getimage-desktop
accepts the following options:
.TP 4
.B --verbose
Print diagnostics.
.TP 4
.B --stdout
Instead of loading the image onto the root window, write it to stdout
as a PBM file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR screencapture (1),
.BR pdf2jpeg (1),
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1),
.BR xscreensaver\-demo (1),
.BR xscreensaver\-getimage (1),
.BR xscreensaver\-getimage\-file (1),
.BR xscreensaver\-getimage\-video (1),
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2003 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy,
modify, distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for
any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that the above
copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
No representations are made about the suitability of this software for
any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski <jwz@jwz.org>, 20-Oct-03.
