.TH XScreenSaver 1 "14-Aug-2004 (4.18)" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xscreensaver-getimage - put some randomly-selected image on the root window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xscreensaver-getimage
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\--verbose] window-id [pixmap-id]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIxscreensaver\-getimage\fP program is a helper program for the
xscreensaver hacks that manipulate images.  This is not a user-level
command.

This program selects a random image, and puts it on the specified
window or pixmap.  This image might be a snapshot of the desktop; or
a frame captured from the system's video input; or a randomly-selected
image from disk.

If only a window ID is specified, the image will be painted there.
If both a window ID and a pixmap ID are specified, then the image will
be painted on the pixmap; and the window \fImay\fP be modified as a
side-effect.
.SH OPTIONS
.I xscreensaver-getimage
reads the \fI~/.xscreensaver\fP file for configuration information.
It uses these settings:
.TP 4
.B grabDesktopImages
Whether it is acceptable to grab snapshots of the desktop.
The security paranoid might want to turn this off, to avoid letting
people see (but not touch!) your desktop while the screen is locked.
.TP 4
.B grabVideoFrames
Whether it is acceptable to grab frames of video from the system's video
input.  Grabbing of video is done by invoking the
.BR xscreensaver-getimage-video (1)
program.
.TP 4
.B chooseRandomImages
Whether it is acceptable to display random images found on disk.
Selection and loading of images is done by invoking the
.BR xscreensaver-getimage-file (1)
program.
.TP 4
.B imageDirectory
When loading images from disk, this is the directory to search.
The directory will be searched recursively, and all files in it are 
assumed to be images.
.PP
If none of the three options are set to True, then video
colorbars will be displayed instead.
.SH BUGS
When grabbing desktop images, the \fIwindow\fP argument will be unmapped
and have its contents modified, causing flicker.  (This does not happen
when loading image files or video frames.)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.BR xscreensaver\-demo (1)
.BR xscreensaver\-getimage\-file (1)
.BR xscreensaver\-getimage\-video (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2001 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy,
modify, distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for
any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that the above
copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
No representations are made about the suitability of this software for
any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski <jwz@jwz.org>, 14-Apr-01
