.TH XScreenSaver 1 "May 2005"
.SH NAME
antmaze \- ant maze walker
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B antinspect
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-window] [\-root] [\-install]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP] [\-delay \fImicroseconds\fP] [\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIantmaze\fP code displays ants finding their way through a maze.
.SH OPTIONS
.I antmaze
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-shadows
Draw shadows on ground
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.B \-fps
Display a running tally of how many frames per second are being rendered.
In conjunction with \fB\-delay 0\fP, this can be a useful benchmark of 
your GL performance.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.BR xscreensaver\-demo (1),
.BR xscreensaver\-getimage (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2005 by Blair Tennessy.  Permission to use, copy, modify,
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Blair Tennessy <tennessy@cs.ubc.ca>, 8-May-2005.
 
