.de EX		\"Begin example
.ne 5
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp .5
.nf
.in +.5i
..
.de EE
.fi
.in -.5i
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp .5
..
.TH XScreenSaver 1 "12-Feb-03" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
atunnel - hypnotic GL tunnel journey
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sballs
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-window] [\-root]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP] [\-delay \fImicroseconds\fP]
[\-light] [\-no-light]
[\-wire] [\-no-wire]
[\-texture] [\-no-texture]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIatunnel\fP program draws an animation of a journey in a GL tunnel.
.SH OPTIONS
.I sballs
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate, CPU load, and polygon count.
.TP 8
.B \-texture
Show a textured tunnel. This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-no\-texture
Disables texturing the animation.
.TP 8
.B \-wire
Draw a wireframe rendition of the tunnel.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2003 by Eric Lassauge.
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and
its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is"
without express or implied warranty.

The original code for this mode was written by 
Roman Podobedov <romka@ut.ee>
and can be found at http://romka.demonews.com

.SH AUTHOR
Roman Podobedov <romka@ut.ee> 
Eric Lassauge <lassauge@users.sourceforge.net>
