.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
blinkbox 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B blinkbox
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-window]
[\-root]
[\-delay \fInumber\fP]
[\-wireframe]
[\-boxsize \fInumber\fP]
[\-dissolve]
[\-fade]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Shows a ball contained inside of a bounding box. Colored blocks blink in
when the ball hits the edges.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 30000 (0.03 seconds.).
.TP 8
.B \-wireframe | \-no-wireframe
Render in wireframe instead of solid.
.TP 8
.B \-boxsize 
Sets the size of the colored boxes. Should be between 1 and 4. Default: 1 
.TP 8
.B \-dissolve | \-no-dissolve
Boxes shrink instead of just vanishing.
.TP 8
.B \-fade | \-no-fade
Boxes fade to transparency instead of just vanishing.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2003 by Jeremy English.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jeremy English.
