.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
blocktube - draws a swirling, falling tunnel of reflective slabs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B blocktube
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-window]
[\-root]
[\-delay \fInumber\fP]
[\-holdtime \fInumber\fP]
[\-changetime \fInumber\fP]
[\-no-texture]
[\-no-fog]
[\-wireframe]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Blocktube draws a swirling, falling tunnel of reflective slabs. They fade 
from hue to hue.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 40000 (0.04 seconds.).
.TP 8
.B \-holdtime \fInumber\fP
How long to stay on the same color.  Default: 1000 frames.
.TP 8
.B \-changetime \fInumber\fP
How long it takes to fade to a new color.  Default: 200 frames.
.TP 8
.B \-no-texture
Draw solid blocks intstead of reflective blocks.
.TP 8
.B \-no-fog
Do not make blocks in the distance be darker.
.TP 8
.B \-wireframe
Only draw outlines.
.TP 8
.B \-fps | \-no-fps
Whether to show a frames-per-second display at the bottom of the screen.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2003 by Lars Damerow.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Lars Damerow <lars@oddment.org>
