.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
bouncingcow - a happy cow on a trampoline in 3D.  Moo.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bouncingcow
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-window]
[\-root]
[\-delay \fInumber\fP]
[\-speed \fInumber\fP]
[\-count \fInumber\fP]
[\-texture \fIfilename\fP]
[\-wireframe]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
It's very silly.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 30000 (0.03 seconds.).
.TP 8
.B \-speed \fInumber\fP
How fast the cow bounces.  Larger for faster.  Default: 1.0.
.TP 8
.B \-count \fInumber\fP
How many cows!  Default 1.
.TP 8
.B \-texture \fIfilename\fP
An image file to paint on the cow's hide.

Note that on most systems, GL textures must have dimensions that are a
power of two.
.TP 8
.B \-wireframe
Render in wireframe instead of solid.
.TP 8
.B \-fps | \-no-fps
Whether to show a frames-per-second display at the bottom of the screen.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2003 by Jamie Zawinski.  Moo.  Permission to use, copy,
modify, distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for
any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that the above
copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
Moo.  No representations are made about the suitability of this
software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or
implied warranty.  Moo.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski <jwz@jwz.org>

