.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
carousel \- displays multiple images rotating in a circular formation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B carousel
[\-\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-\-window]
[\-\-root]
[\-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-count \fIint\fP]
[\-\-zoom | \-\-no\-zoom]
[\-\-tilt \fIXY\fP]
[\-\-titles | \-\-no\-titles]
[\-\-font \fIfont\fP]
[\-\-speed \fIratio\fP]
[\-\-duration \fIseconds\fP]
[\-\-fps]
[\-\-debug]
[\-\-wireframe]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Loads several random images, and displays them flying in a circular
formation.  The circle changes speed and direction randomly, tilts on
its axis, and the images move in and out.

This program requires a good video card capable of supporting large
textures.

To specify the directory that images are loaded from, run
.BR xscreensaver\-settings (1)
and click on the "Advanced" tab.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-\-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-\-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP
Draw on the specified window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-count \fIint\fP
How many images to display.  Default 7.
.TP 8
.B \-\-zoom \fB| \-\-no\-zoom\fP
Whether the images should move in and out (toward and away from the
axis of rotation).  Default true.
.TP 8
.B \-\-tilt \fIXY\fP \fB| \-\-no\-tilt\fP
Whether the axis of rotation should tilt, and how.  \fB-tilt X\fP
means that it will tilt toward and away from the viewer.  
\fB-tilt Y\fP means that it will tilt to the left and right of the
screen.  \fB-tilt XY\fP (the default) means it will do both.
.TP 8
.B \-\-titles \fB| \-\-no\-titles\fP
Whether to display the file names of the images beneath them.  Default: yes.
.TP 8
.B \-\-font \fIfont-name\fP
The font to use for titles.  Note that the size of the font affects
the clarity of the characters, not their size (it is auto-scaled.)
.TP 8
.B \-\-duration \fIseconds\fP
Every \fIduration\fP seconds, one of the images will be replaced
with a new one.  Default 20 seconds.
.TP 8
.B \-\-speed \fIratio\fP
Speed up or slow down the animation.  0.5 means half as fast as the
default; 2.0 means twice as fast.
.TP 8
.B \-\-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 20000 (0.02 seconds.).
.TP 8
.B \-\-fps
Display the current frame rate, CPU load, and polygon count.
.TP 8
.B \-\-debug
Prints debugging info to stderr.
.TP 8
.B \-\-wireframe
Another debug mode.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.TP 8
.B XSCREENSAVER_WINDOW
The window ID to use with \fI\-\-root\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver\-settings (1)
.BR xscreensaver\-getimage (MANSUFFIX)
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.BR glslideshow (MANSUFFIX)
.BR photopile (MANSUFFIX)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2005 by Jamie Zawinski.

Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and
its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is"
without express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski.
