.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
crackberg \- Lose your way wandering some height fields, and enjoy candy.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B crackberg
[\-\-root]
[\-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-window]
[\-\-install]
[\-\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-\-window-id \fIid\fP]
[\-\-delay \fIusecs\fP]
[\-\-fps]
[\-\-crack]
[\-\-lit]
[\-\-boring]
[\-\-letterbox]
[\-\-flat]
[\-\-wire]
[\-\-nowater]
[\-\-visibility \fIfloat\fP]
[\-\-color \fIstring\fP]
[\-\-nsubdivs \fIinteger\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Flies through height maps, optionally animating the instantiation and
destruction of generated tiles; by default, tiles 'grow' into place (height
gradually increased up to correct value).  In windowed mode the following key
controls are available:
.TP 8
.B left, right
Turn left and right.
.TP 8
.B a,w,s,d
Move left, forwards, backwards, and to the right, respectively.
.TP 8
.B 1,2
Decrease and increase manual speed, respectively.
.TP 8
.B Spacebar
Return to automatic control.
.SH OPTIONS
.I crackberg
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-\-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP
Draw on the specified window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-\-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual
class, or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-\-delay \fImicroseconds\fP
Delay between frames; default 20000 (1/50th of a second).
.TP 8
.B \-\-fps
Display the current frame rate, CPU load, and polygon count.
.TP 8
.B \-\-crack
Use all possible methods to animate tile instantiation.
.TP 8
.B \-\-boring
Do not animate instatiation at all; use this to get standard landscape 
generator behavior.
.TP 8
.B \-\-letterbox
Drawable window region has a 16:9 aspect ratio, regardless of actual
window size.
.TP 8
.B \-\-lit
Enable lighting.
.TP 8
.B \-\-flat
Flat shading (OpenGL will use one color per primitive, rather than
interpolating betwixt vertices).
.TP 8
.B \-\-wire
Wireframe.
.TP 8
.B \-\-nowater
Do not display 'water' (forces negative values to zero, and selects a 
different coloring method).
.TP 8
.B \-\-visibility \fIfloat\fP
Value in range [0.2,1.0] (default 0.6) specifying proportion of viewable 
XY plane which is to be drawn upon.
.TP 8
.B \-\-color \fIstring\fP
Selects color scheme.  Use with no or bogus argument for current list.
.TP 8
.B \-\-nsubdivs \fIinteger\fP
Number of times to recursively subdivide each triangular tile.  Each 
increment increases total triangles by a factor of 4; for instance the default
setting 4 results in 256 triangles per tile.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.TP 8
.B XSCREENSAVER_WINDOW
The window ID to use with \fI\-\-root\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2005 by Matus Telgarsky.  Permission to use, copy,
modify, distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for
any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that the above
copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
No representations are made about the suitability of this software for
any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Matus Telgarsky <catachresis@cmu.edu>, 2005.
