.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
cubenetic - cubist 3D undulating blob.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cubenetic
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-window]
[\-root]
[\-delay \fInumber\fP]
[\-count \fInumber\fP]
[\-no-wander]
[\-no-spin]
[\-spin \fI[XYZ]\fP]
[\-wireframe]
[\-no-texture]
[\-wave-speed \fInumber\fP]
[\-wave-radius \fInumber\fP]
[\-waves \fInumber\fP]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Draws a pulsating set of overlapping boxes with ever-chaning blobby
patterns undulating across their surfaces.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 20000 (0.02 seconds.).
.TP 8
.B \-count \fInumber\fP
How many boxes make up the object.  Default: 5.
.TP 8
.B \-wander | \-no-wander
Whether the object should wander around the screen.
.TP 8
.B \-spin \fI[XYZ]\fP
Around which axes should the object spin?
.TP 8
.B \-no-spin
Don't spin.
.TP 8
.B \-wireframe
Render in wireframe instead of solid.
.TP 8
.B \-texture | \-no-texture
Display Solid Colors.
.TP 8
.B \-wave-speed \fInumber\fP
Surface Pattern Speed.	5 - 150.  Default: 80.
.TP 8
.B \-wave-radius \fInumber\fP
Surface Pattern Overlap.  5 - 600.  Default: 512.
.TP 8
.B \-waves \fInumber\fP
Surface Pattern Complexity.  1 - 20.  Default: 3.
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate, CPU load, and polygon count.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2002 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski.
