.TH XScreenSaver 1 "Dec-28-07" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
cubicgrid - rotating 3D lattice seen from inside
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cubicgrid
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-window]
[\-root]
[\-install]
[\-delay \fImicroseconds\fP]
[\-mono]
[\-speed \fInumber\fP]
[\-zoom \fInumber\fP]
[\-ticks \fInumber\fP]
[\-bigdots]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program shows the view of an observer located inside a set of points 
arranged to a 3D lattice.  As the lattice rotates, various view-throughs appear 
and evolve.  A simple idea with interesting results.
.SH OPTIONS
.I cubicgrid
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fImicroseconds\fP
How long to pause between frames.  Default is 20000, or 0.02 second.
.TP 8
.B \-mono
Draw in black and white.  If not used, a fixed all-color scheme is chosen.
.TP 8
.B \-speed \fInumber\fP
The maximum speed of the rotation.  The actual speed and axis change smoothly 
for better effect.  0.5 - 10.  The default is 1.0.
.TP 8
.B \-zoom \fInumber\fP
Size of the lattice.  Ideally it should fill all the screen, but one may find 
other values also interesting.  5 - 50.  The default of 20 should do for common 
screen aspect ratios.
.TP 8
.B \-ticks \fInumber\fP
The count of points drawn along every axis.  10 - 100.  The default is 30.
.TP 8
.B \-bigdots
Draw the points twice as big.
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display a running tally of how many frames per second are being rendered.
In conjunction with \fB\-delay 0\fP, this can be a useful benchmark of 
your GL performance.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2007 by Vasek Potocek.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear in 
all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Vasek Potocek <vasek.potocek@post.cz>, Dec-28-07.
