.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
driftclouds \- little fluffy clouds.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B driftclouds
[\-\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-\-window]
[\-\-root]
[\-\-delay \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-speed \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-scale \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Clouds. Little fluffy clouds. 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-\-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-\-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 20000 (0.02 seconds).
.TP 8
.B \-\-speed \fInumber\fP
Animation speed.  2.0 means twice as fast, 0.5 means half as fast.
.TP 8
.B \-\-scale \fInumber\fP
Resolution.  0.1 - 1.0.  Default: 1.0.
.TP 8
.B \-\-fps | \-\-no\-fps
Whether to show a frames-per-second display at the bottom of the screen.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.TP 8
.B XSCREENSAVER_WINDOW
The window ID to use with \fI\-\-root\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1),
.BR https://www.shadertoy.com/view/4tdSWr
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2016 by drift.
Anyone and everyone who wishes to use this shader I give my permission to
use it in any way that you choose. Credit would be nice but I won't insist
on it.
.SH AUTHOR
drift.
