.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
dymaxionmap - An animation of Buckminster Fuller's unwrapped icosahedral globe.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dymaxionmap
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-window]
[\-root]
[\-delay \fInumber\fP]
[\-speed \fIratio\fP]
[\-no-wander]
[\-no-roll]
[\-no-stars]
[\-no-grid]
[\-flat]
[\-satellite]
[\-image \fIfile\fP]
[\-image2 \fIfile\fP]
[\-frames \fInumber\fP]
[\-wireframe]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Buckminster Fuller's map of the Earth projected onto the surface of an
unfolded icosahedron. It depicts the Earth's continents as one island, or
nearly contiguous land masses.

This screen saver animates the progression of the dusk terminator across
the flattened globe. It includes both satellite and flat-colored map
imagery, and can load and convert other Equirectangular-projected maps.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 20000 (0.02 seconds).
.TP 8
.B \-speed \fIratio\fP
Speed of the animation. 0.5 means half as fast, 2 means twice as fast.
.TP 8
.B \-wander | \-no-wander
Whether the object should wander around the screen. Default yes.
.TP 8
.B \-roll | \-no-roll
Whether the object should roll randomly. Default yes.
.TP 8
.B \-stars | \-no-stars
Whether to display a star field. Default yes.
.TP 8
.B \-grid | \-no-grid
Whether to overlay a latitude/longitude grid over the map. Default yes.
.TP 8
.B \-flat
Display a flat-colored map of the Earth. This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-satellite
Display a day-time satellite map of the Earth.
.TP 8
.B \-image \fIfile\fP
An image to use for the day-time map.
.TP 8
.B \-image2 \fIfile\fP
An image to use for the night-time map.
The two images can be the same: the night-time one will be darkened.
.TP 8
.B \-frames \fInumber\fP
The number of frames in the day/night animation. Default 720.
Larger numbers are smoother, but use more memory.
The day/night animation happens if \fIimage2\fP is set, or
if \fIframes\fP is greater than 1.
.TP 8
.B \-wireframe | \-no-wireframe
Render in wireframe instead of solid.
.TP 8
.B \-fps | \-no-fps
Whether to show a frames-per-second display at the bottom of the screen.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.BR glplanet (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2016-2018 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.

"Dymaxion Map" and "The Fuller Projection Map" are trademarks of
The Buckminster Fuller Institute.

The original Dymaxion Map image is copyright \(co 1982 by
The Buckminster Fuller Institute. (This program does not use their
imagery, only similar trigonometry.)

The Dymaxion Map was covered by now-expired US Patent 2,393,676
(Richard Buckminster Fuller, 1946).
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski.
