.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
esper \- Enhance 224 to 176. Go right. Enhance 57 19. Track 45 left.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B esper
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-window]
[\-root]
[\-delay \fInumber\fP]
[\-speed \fInumber\fP]
[\-titles]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
"Enhance 224 to 176. Pull out track right. Center in pull back. Pull back.
Wait a minute. Go right. Stop. Enhance 57 19. Track 45 left. Gimme a
hardcopy right there." 

The Esper Machine was a voice-controlled forensic device used by LAPD
in 2019, as documented in the 1982 film, \fIBlade Runner.\fP  It was
capable of enhancing photographs to an extreme degree, including
reconstructing different viewpoints within the space from the
reflections on various objects in the photograph.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 20000 (0.02 seconds).
.TP 8
.B \-speed \fInumber\fP
Animation speed.  2.0 means twice as fast, 0.5 means half as fast.
.TP 8
.B \-titles | \-no-titles
Show file names.  Boolean.
.TP 8
.B \-fps | \-no-fps
Whether to show a frames-per-second display at the top of the screen.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2017 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski.
