.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
extrusion \- various rotating extruded shapes.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B extrusion
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-window]
[\-root]
[\-delay \fInumber\fP]
[\-name \fIwhich\fP]
[\-no-light]
[\-wireframe]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Draws various rotating extruded shapes that twist around, lengthen, and
turn inside out.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 10000 (0.01 seconds.).
.TP 8
.B \-name \fIwhich\fP
Which object to draw.  Choices are: helix2, helix3, helix4, joinoffset,
screw, taper, and twistoid.
.TP 8
.B \-light | \-no-light
Whether to light the scene, or use flat coloring.
.TP 8
.B \-bitmap \fIfile\fP
The texture map to use.
.TP 8
.B \-wireframe
Render in wireframe instead of solid.
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate, CPU load, and polygon count.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2002 by Linas Vepstas and David Konerding.  Permission
to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
documentation.  No representations are made about the suitability of
this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express
or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
This screensaver was created by David Konerding from the samples that
come with the GL Extrusion library by Linas Vepstas.
