.TH XScreenSaver 1 "20-Mar-2005" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
fliptext - draws pages of text whose lines transparently flip around
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fliptext
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-window] [\-root]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-delay \fImicroseconds\fP]
[\-program \fIcommand\fP]
[\-size \fIinteger\fP ]
[\-columns \fIinteger\fP]
[\-left | \-center | \-right]
[\-lines \fIinteger\fP]
[\-speed \fIfloat\fP]
[\-delay \fIusecs\fP]
[\-font \fIxlfd\fP]
[\-wireframe]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIfliptext\fP program runs another program to generate a stream of
text, then animates the lines of that text transparently flipping in
and out in 3D.
.SH OPTIONS
.I fliptext
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-program \fIsh-command\fP
This program will be run periodically, and its output will be the text
that is displayed.  Default \fIxscreensaver\-text\fP.

You can configure the text printed through the "Advanced" tab of
.BR xscreensaver\-demo (1),
or by editing your ~/.xscreensaver file.
.TP 8
.B \-size \fIinteger\fP
How large a font to use, in points.  (Well, in some arbitrary unit 
we're calling "points" for the sake of argument.)  Default: 20.
.TP 8
.B \-columns \fIinteger\fP
At (approximately) what column to wrap lines.  Default 80.  Wrapping is
done by pixels, not characters, and lines will always wrap at the
edge of the screen regardless.
.TP 8
.B \-left | \-center | \-right
Whether to align the text flush left, centered, or flush right.
The default is to choose randomly each time a new screen of text 
is displayed.
.TP 8
.B \-lines \fIinteger\fP
How many lines of text should be shown at once.  Default 8.
.TP 8
.B \-speed \fIratio\fP
Change the animation speed; 0.5 to go half as fast, 2.0 to go twice as fast.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fIusecs\fP
The delay between frames of the animation; default is 10000 (1/10th second.)
.TP 8
.B \-font \fIfont-name\fP
The name of the font to use.  For best effect, this should be a large
font (at least 36 points.)  The bigger the font, the better looking the
characters will be.  Note that the size of this font affects only the
clarity of the characters, not their size on the screen: for that, use
the \fI\-size\fP or \fI\-columns\fP options.

Default: -*-utopia-bold-r-normal-*-*-720-*-*-*-*-iso8859-1
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display a running tally of how many frames per second are being rendered.
In conjunction with \fB\-delay 0\fP, this can be a useful benchmark of 
your GL performance.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xscreensaver (1),
.BR xscreensaver-text (1),
.BR fortune (1),
.BR phosphor (1),
.BR apple2 (1),
.BR fontglide (1),
.BR ljlatest (1),
.BR dadadodo (1),
.BR webcollage (1),
.BR driftnet (1)
.BR EtherPEG ,
.BR EtherPeek
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2005 by Jamie Zawinski.
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and
its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is"
without express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski <jwz@jwz.org>
