.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
flurry \- a colorful particle system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B flurry
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-window]
[\-root]
[\-preset <arg>]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a port of the OSX screensaver flurry.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-preset <arg>
Select a preset (classic, fire, water, psychedelic, rgb, binary, random, insane)

(Insane will never be selected at random, because it requires lots of CPU/GPU
power)

.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate, CPU load, and polygon count.
.TP 8
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2002 by Calum Robinson.
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and
its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is"
without express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
OSX screen saver by Calum Robinson <calumr@mac.com>
.br
XScreenSaver port by Tobias Sargeant <tobias.sargeant@bigpond.com>
.SH POSTCARDS
If you really like it, send me a postcard (after all, you're getting this for
free!). Please check this address by downloading the latest version of Flurry
just before you send me a postcard - I may have moved. 

.PD 0
Calum Robinson
.P
133 Sydenham Avenue
.P
Belfast
.P
Northern Ireland
.P
BT4 2DQ
.PD 0

