.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
flyingtoasters - 3d space-age jet-powered flying toasters (and toast)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B flyingtoasters
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-window]
[\-root]
[\-delay \fInumber\fP]
[\-speed \fInumber\fP]
[\-ntoasters \fInumber\fP]
[\-nslices \fInumber\fP]
[\-no-texture]
[\-no-fog]
[\-wireframe]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Draws a squadron of shiny 3D space-age jet-powered flying toasters, and
associated toast, flying across your screen.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 30000 (0.03 seconds.).
.TP 8
.B \-speed \fInumber\fP
How fast the toasters fly.  Larger for faster.  Default: 1.0.
.TP 8
.B \-ntoasters \fInumber\fP
How many toasters to draw.  Default 20.
.TP 8
.B \-nslices \fInumber\fP
How many slices of toast to draw.  Default 25.
.TP 8
.B \-no-texture
Turn off texture mapping (for slow machines.)
.TP 8
.B \-no-fog
Turn off fog (do not fade out distant toasters.)
.TP 8
.B \-wireframe
Render in wireframe instead of solid.
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate, CPU load, and polygon count.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.BR After Dark
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2003 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy,
modify, distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for
any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that the above
copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
No representations are made about the suitability of this software for
any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
warranty.

The original After Dark flying toasters, with the fluffy white wings,
were a trademark of Berkeley Systems.  Berkeley Systems ceased to exist
some time in 1998, having been gobbled up by Sierra Online, who were
subsequently gobbled up by Flipside and/or Vivendi (it's hard to tell
exactly what happened when.)

I doubt anyone even cares any more, but if they do, hopefully this
homage, with the space-age 3D jet-plane toasters, will be considered
different enough that whoever still owns the trademark to the
fluffy-winged 2D bitmapped toasters won't get all huffy at us.
.SH AUTHOR
Code by Jamie Zawinski.  Object models by Baconmonkey.
