.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
Hacking the Gibson - screen saver.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gibson
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-window]
[\-root]
[\-delay \fInumber\fP]
[\-speed \fInumber\fP]
[\-grid-width \fInumber\fP]
[\-grid-depth \fInumber\fP]
[\-grid-height \fInumber\fP]
[\-grid-spacing \fInumber\fP]
[\-columns \fInumber\fP]
[\-no-texture]
[\-wireframe]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Hacking the Gibson, as per the 1995 classic film, \fIHACKERS\fP.

"Hackers penetrate and ravage delicate public and privately owned
computer systems, infecting them with viruses, and stealing materials
for their own ends. These people, they are terrorists."
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 20000 (0.02 seconds).
.TP 8
.B \-speed \fInumber\fP
Animation speed.  2.0 means twice as fast, 0.5 means half as fast.
.TP 8
.B \-grid-width \fInumber\fP
Number of towers across.  1 - 20.  Default: 10.
.TP 8
.B \-grid-depth \fInumber\fP
Number of towers deep.  1 - 20.  Default: 10.
.TP 8
.B \-grid-height \fInumber\fP
Height of the towers.  1 - 20.  Default: 7.
.TP 8
.B \-grid-spacing \fInumber\fP
Space between towers.	1 - 5.	Default: 2.0.
.TP 8
.B \-columns \fInumber\fP
Columns of text on the towers.  1 - 20.	Default: 6.
.TP 8
.B \-texture | \-no-texture
Whether to draw text.  Default true.
.TP 8
.B \-wireframe | \-no-wireframe
Render in wireframe instead of solid.
.TP 8
.B \-fps | \-no-fps
Whether to show a frames-per-second display at the bottom of the screen.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2020 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski.
