.TH XScreenSaver 1 "June 2007"
.SH NAME
glcells \- growing cells graphics hack
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B glcells
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-window] [\-root] [\-install]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-delay \fInum\fP] [\-pause \fInum\fP] [\-maxcells \fInum\fP]
[\-radius \fInum\fP] [\-seeds \fInum\fP] [\-quality \fInum\fP]
[\-minfood \fInum\fP] [\-maxfood \fInum\fP] [\-divideage \fInum\fP]
[\-mindist \fInum\fP]
[\-keepold]
[\-wireframe]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIglcells\fP program draws cells that divide exponentially, eat and eventually die.
.SH OPTIONS
.I glcells
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-pause \fInum\fP\fP
Specifies the pause at the end of the animation (all cells dead or maximum amount of cells reached). Unit is in frames, default 20.
.TP 8
.B \-maxcells \fInum\fP\fP
Specifies the maximum number of cells on screen (dead cells also count, even if invisible). Default is 800.
.TP 8
.B \-radius \fInum\fP\fP
Specifies the radius of the cells. Default is 40.
.TP 8
.B \-seeds \fInum\fP\fP
Specifies the number of cells when animation starts. Default is 1.
.TP 8
.B \-quality \fInum\fP\fP
Specifies subdivision quality of the spheres used to draw the cells [0...5]. Default is 3.
.TP 8
.B \-minfood \fInum\fP\fP
Food is ditributed randomly on the screen (Yes, the cells need to eat). This parameter specifies the
minimum amount of food per pixel. Default is 5.
.TP 8
.B \-maxfood \fInum\fP\fP
Food is ditributed randomly on the screen (Yes, the cells need to eat). This parameter specifies the
maximum amount of food per pixel. Default is 20.
.TP 8
.B \-divideage \fInum\fP\fP
Specifies the minimum age in frames a cell needs to have before being able to divide. Default is 20
.TP 8
.B \-mindist \fInum\fP\fP
Specifies the minimum distance between cells. Default 1.4
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fInum\fP
How long to pause between frames.  Default is 20000, or 0.02 second.
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate, CPU load, and polygon count.
.TP 8
.B \-wireframe
Draw wireframe only.
.TP 8
.B \-keepold
Dead cells stay on screen.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.BR xscreensaver\-demo (1),
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2007 by Matthias Toussaint.  Permission to use, copy, modify,
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Matthias Toussaint <glcells@mtoussaint.de>, 17-Jun-2007, http://www.mtoussaint.de/bits.html.
 
