.de EX		\"Begin example
.ne 5
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp .5
.nf
.in +.5i
..
.de EE
.fi
.in -.5i
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp .5
..
.TH XScreenSaver 1 "03-Oct-01" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
glforestfire \- draws a GL animation of sprinkling fire-like 3D triangles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B glforestfire
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-window] [\-root]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP] [\-delay \fImicroseconds\fP]
[\-count \fInumber_of_particles\fP] 
[\-trees \fInumber_of_trees\fP] 
[\-size \fIviewport_size\fP] 
[\-texture] [\-no-texture]
[\-shadows] [\-no-shadows]
[\-fog] [\-no-fog]
[\-wireframe] [\-no-wireframe]
[\-wander] [\-no-wander]
[\-trackmouse] [\-no-trackmouse]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIglforestfire\fP program draws an animation of sprinkling fire-like 3D triangles in
a landscape filled with trees.
.SH OPTIONS
.I glforestfire
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate, CPU load, and polygon count.
.TP 8
.B \-trees \fInumber_of_trees\fP\fP
Specify how much trees are drawn in the landscape. 
.TP 8
.B \-count \fInumber_of_particles\fP\fP
Specify how much fire particles are drawn. A very special case is 0
wich means that you get
.B rain
!
.TP 8
.B \-size \fIviewport_size\fP\fP
Viewport of GL scene is specified size if greater than 32 and less than screensize. Default value is 0, meaning full screensize.
.TP 8
.B \-texture
Show a textured ground and the trees. This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-no\-texture
Disables texturing the landscape. This implies that no trees are drawn.
.TP 8
.B \-shadows
Show a shadow for each particle on the ground. This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-no\-shadows
Disables the drawing of the shadows.
.TP 8
.B \-fog
Show a fog in the distance.
.TP 8
.B \-no\-fog
Disables the fog. This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-wander
Move the observer around the landscape. This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-no\-wander
Keep the fire centered on the screen.
.TP 8
.B \-trackmouse
Let the mouse be a joystick to change the view of the landscape.
This implies 
.I \-no\-wander.
.TP 8
.B \-no\-trackmouse
Disables mouse tracking. This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-wire
Draw a wireframe rendition of the fire: this will consist only of
single-pixel lines for the triangles.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2001 by Eric Lassauge.
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and
its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is"
without express or implied warranty.

The original code for this hack was written by David Bucciarelli 
(tech.hmw@plus.it) and could be found in the demo package 
of Mesa (Mesa-3.2/3Dfx/demos/). This hack is the result of the merge of
two of the David's demos (fire and rain).

.SH AUTHOR
David Bucciarelli <tech.hmw@plus.it>
Eric Lassauge <lassauge@mail.dotcom.fr>
