.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
glplanet - rotating 3d texture-mapped planet.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B glplanet
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-window]
[\-root]
[\-delay \fInumber\fP]
[\-image \fIfile\fP]
[\-image2 \fIfile\fP]
[\-resolution \fInumber\fP]
[\-wireframe]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Draws a planet bouncing around in space.  The built-in images are day and
night maps of the Earth, but you can wrap any Equirectangular-projected
map onto the sphere, e.g., the planetary textures included 
with \fIssystem.\fP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 20000 (0.02 seconds.).
.TP 8
.B \-image \fIfile\fP
The day texture map to wrap around the planet's surface.
.TP 8
.B \-image2 \fIfile\fP
The night texture map to wrap around the planet's surface.
The two will be blended together at the dusk terminator.
.TP 8
.B \-resolution
The resolution of the planetary mesh. Default: 128.
.TP 8
.B \-wireframe
Render in wireframe instead of solid.
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate, CPU load, and polygon count.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.BR dymaxionmap (1)
.BR ssystem (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2002-2018 by David Konerding and Jamie Zawinski.
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software
and its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is"
without express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
David Konerding and Jamie Zawinski. 
