.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
glslideshow - slideshow of images using smooth zooming and fades
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B glslideshow
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-window]
[\-root]
[\-duration \fIseconds\fP]
[\-zoom \fIpercent\fP]
[\-pan \fIseconds\fP]
[\-fade \fIseconds\fP]
[\-titles]
[\-letterbox | \-clip]
[\-delay \fIusecs\fP]
[\-fps]
[\-debug]
[\-wireframe]
[\-cutoff \fIint\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Loads a random sequence of images and smoothly scans and zooms around
in each, fading from pan to pan.  

This program requires a good video card capable of supporting large
textures.

To specify the directory that images are loaded from, run
.BR xscreensaver-demo (1)
and click on the "Advanced" tab.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-duration \fIseconds\fP
How long each image will be displayed before loading a new one.
Default 30 seconds.
.TP 8
.B \-pan \fIseconds\fP
How long each pan-and-zoom should last.  Default 6 seconds.

With the default settings of \fI\-pan 6 \-duration 30\fP, each image
will be displayed five times (30/6), and then a new image will be loaded.
If you want a new image to be loaded at each fade, then set \fI\-pan\fP
and \fI\-duration\fP to the same value.
.TP 8
.B \-fade \fIseconds\fP
How long each cross-fade between images should last.  Default 2 seconds.
If set to 0, then no cross-fading will be done (all transitions
will be jump-cuts.)

Note that fades are included in the pan time, so \fI\-fade\fP cannot
be larger than \fI\-pan\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-zoom \fInumber\fP
Amount to zoom and pan as a percentage. Default: 75, meaning that
75% or more of each image will always be visible.  If set to 100%,
then the images will always fill the screen, and no panning or 
zooming will occur.  (Images will still smoothly fade from one
to another if \fI\-fade\fP is non-zero.)
.TP 8
.B \-titles
Whether to print the file name of the current image in the upper left corner.
.TP 8
.B \-letterbox
In "letterbox" mode, when an image is not the same aspect ratio as the screen,
black bars will appear at the top/bottom or left/right so that the whole
image can be displayed.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-clip
In "clip" mode, when an image is not the same aspect ratio as the screen,
we will zoom in further until the image takes up the whole screen.
This is the opposite of \fI\-letterbox\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 20000 (0.02 seconds.).
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate, CPU load, and polygon count.
.TP 8
.B \-cutoff \fInumber\fP
If the frame rate we are achieving is lower than this, then panning,
fading, and zooming will be disabled.  Default 5 FPS.

The idea here is that if your machine can't maintain a decent frame
rate, then it must not have fast 3D hardware, so we might as well
behave in a simpler manner.  Set this to 0 to disable this check.
.TP 8
.B \-debug
Prints debugging info to stderr.
.TP 8
.B \-wireframe
Another debug mode.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver-demo (1),
.BR xscreensaver-getimage (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1),
.BR carousel (MANSUFFIX)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2003-2005 by Jamie Zawinski, based on an earlier version
that was
Copyright \(co 2002 by Mike Oliphant.

Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and
its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is"
without express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski and Mike Oliphant.
