.TH XScreenSaver 1 "January 15, 2001" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
glsnake \- OpenGL enhanced Rubik's Snake cyclewaster.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B glsnake
[\-\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-\-window] [\-\-root]
[\-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-visual \fIvisual\fP] [\-\-delay \fImicroseconds\fP] [\-\-fps]
[\-\-wireframe] [\-\-altcolour]
[\-\-angvel \fIangular\fP]
[\-\-explode \fIdistance\fP]
[\-\-statictime \fImilliseconds\fP]
[\-\-yangvel \fIangle\fP]
[\-\-zangvel \fIangle\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B glsnake
is an imitation of Rubiks\' Snake, using OpenGL.
.SH OPTIONS
.I glsnake
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-\-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-\-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP
Draw on the specified window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-visual \fIvisual\fP\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-\-fps
Display the current frame rate, CPU load, and polygon count.
.TP 8
.B \-\-wireframe
Display the snake in wireframe mode, rather than the default solid mode.
.TP 8
.B \-\-altcolour
Use the alternate colour scheme for the snake.  Shape identification using
colour will be disabled.
.TP 8
.B -angvel \fIangular\fP
Change the speed at which the snake morphs to a new shape.
.TP 8
.B -explode \fIdistance\fP
Change the distance between the nodes of a snake.
.TP 8
.B \-\-statictime \fImilliseconds\fP
Change the time between morphs.
.TP 8
.B \-\-yangvel \fIangle\fP
Change the angle of rotation around the Y axis per frame.
.TP 8
.B \-\-zangvel \fIangle\fP
Change the angle of rotation around the Z axis per frame.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.TP 8
.B XSCREENSAVER_WINDOW
The window ID to use with \fI\-\-root\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1),
.br
https://spacepants.org/src/glsnake/
.SH BUGS
The snake will happily intersect itself while morphing (this is not a bug).
.PP
The rotation/camera position sucks.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2001, 2002 by Jamie Wilkinson, Andrew Bennetts, and Peter Aylett.
.PP
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.
.PP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Wilkinson <jaq@spacepants.org>, Andrew Bennetts <andrew@puzzling.org>,
and Peter Aylett <peter@ylett.com>.  Ported to XScreenSaver by Jamie Wilkinson.
