.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
hexstrut \- a grid of hexagons composed of rotating Y-shaped struts.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hexstrut
[\-\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-\-window]
[\-\-root]
[\-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-delay \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-speed \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-count \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-thickness \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-no-wander]
[\-\-no-spin]
[\-\-wireframe]
[\-\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
A grid of hexagons composed of rotating Y-shaped struts.
Waves of rotation and color changes randomly propagate across the plane.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-\-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-\-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP
Draw on the specified window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 30000 (0.03 seconds).
.TP 8
.B \-\-speed \fInumber\fP
Animation speed.  2.0 means twice as fast, 0.5 means half as fast.
.TP 8
.B \-\-count \fInumber\fP
Approximate number of hexagons on the screen, horizontally.  Default: 20.
.TP 8
.B \-\-thickness \fInumber\fP
Relative thickness of the struts.  0.01 - 1.7.  Default: 0.2.
.TP 8
.B \-\-wander | \-\-no-wander
Whether the grid should wander around the screen.
.TP 8
.B \-\-spin | \-\-no-spin
Whether the grid should spin.
.TP 8
.B \-\-wireframe | \-\-no-wireframe
Render in wireframe instead of solid.
.TP 8
.B \-\-fps | \-\-no-fps
Whether to show a frames-per-second display at the bottom of the screen.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.TP 8
.B XSCREENSAVER_WINDOW
The window ID to use with \fI\-\-root\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2016 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski.
