.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
kallisti \- the golden apple of discord.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kallisti
[\-\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-\-window]
[\-\-root]
[\-\-delay \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-speed \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-wander]
[\-\-spin 0]
[\-\-spin \fI[XYZ]\fP]
[\-\-spin Z]
[\-\-spin XY]
[\-\-spin XZ]
[\-\-spin YZ]
[\-\-spin XYZ]
[\-\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The golden apple of discord.

Greek goddess Eris was not invited to a wedding; her retort was to toss in a
golden apple, inscribed: "to the fairest". Hera, Athena and Aphrodite
squabbled over it; Zeus noped out, telling Paris of Troy to decide. They all
cheated, but Aphrodite won by letting Paris abduct and marry Helen of
Sparta. The Greeks objected to this, leading to the Trojan War.

Do you want to launch a thousand ships?  Because this is how you launch a
thousand ships.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-\-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-\-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 30000 (0.03 seconds).
.TP 8
.B \-\-speed \fInumber\fP
Animation speed.  2.0 means twice as fast, 0.5 means half as fast.
.TP 8
.B \-\-wander | \-\-no\-wander
Whether the object should wander around the screen.
.TP 8
.B \-\-spin 0
Don't rotate.
.TP 8
.B \-\-spin \fI[XYZ]\fP
Around which axes should the object spin?
.TP 8
.B \-\-spin X
Rotate around X axis.
.TP 8
.B \-\-spin Y
Rotate around Y axis. Default.
.TP 8
.B \-\-spin Z
Rotate around Z axis.
.TP 8
.B \-\-spin XY
Rotate around X and Y axes.
.TP 8
.B \-\-spin XZ
Rotate around X and Z axes.
.TP 8
.B \-\-spin YZ
Rotate around Y and Z axes.
.TP 8
.B \-\-spin XYZ
Rotate around all three axes.
.TP 8
.B \-\-fps | \-\-no\-fps
Whether to show a frames-per-second display at the bottom of the screen.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.TP 8
.B XSCREENSAVER_WINDOW
The window ID to use with \fI\-\-root\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2023 by Jamie Zawinski and Jared Williams.  Permission to use,
copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any
purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright
notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this
permission notice appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are
made about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided
"as is" without express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Code by Jamie Zawinski; model by Jared Williams.
