.TH XScreenSaver 1 "25-Jul-98" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
lament \- animates the Lament Configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lament
[\-\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-\-window] [\-\-root]
[\-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP][\-\-install]
[\-\-visual \fIvisual\fP] [\-\-delay \fImicroseconds\fP] [\-\-fps]
[\-\-texture] [\-\-no\-texture] [\-\-wireframe]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIlament\fP program draws an animation of a particular puzzle box
repeatedly solving itself.
.SH OPTIONS
.I lament
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-\-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-\-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP
Draw on the specified window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-visual \fIvisual\fP\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-\-texture
Use texture maps.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-\-no\-texture
Do not use texture maps.  This is boring and wrong.
.TP 8
.B \-\-wireframe
Only draw outlines.
.TP 8
.B \-\-delay \fImicroseconds\fP
How long to pause between frames.  Default is 20000, or 0.02 second.
.TP 8
.B \-\-fps
Display the current frame rate, CPU load, and polygon count.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.TP 8
.B XSCREENSAVER_WINDOW
The window ID to use with \fI\-\-root\fP.
.SH BUGS
This hack is glacially slow on machines lacking hardware texture support.

Occasionally opens doors, admitting theologians of the Order of the Gash.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1998 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski <jwz@jwz.org>, 25-Jul-98.
