.TH XScreenSaver 1 "18-May-2002" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
lavalite \- 3D OpenGL simulation of a Lavalite.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lavalite
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-window] [\-root]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP] [\-delay \fImicroseconds\fP] [\-fps]
[\-style \fIstyle\fP ]
[\-spin \fIxyz\fP ] [\-no-spin ]
[\-speed \fIfloat\fP ]
[\-resolution \fIinteger\fP ]
[\-count \fIinteger\fP ]
[\-no-smooth ]
[\-wireframe ]
[\-impatient ]
[\-lava-color \fIcolor\fP ]
[\-fluid-color \fIcolor\fP ]
[\-base-color \fIcolor\fP ]
[\-table-color \fIcolor\fP ]
[\-fluid-texture \fIfilename\fP ]
[\-base-texture \fIfilename\fP ]
[\-table-texture \fIfilename\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIlavalite\fP program displays a 3D simulation of the famous lamp
of the same name.  It requires a fast computer with fast OpenGL support.
.SH OPTIONS
.I lavalite
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-style \fIstyle\fP\fP
Specify which model of lamp to draw.  Available models 
are: \fBClassic\fP, \fBGiant\fP, \fBCone\fP, and \fBRocket\fP.
Default: random.
.TP 8
.B \-spin \fIxyz\fP
Around which axes the model should auto-spin.  Defaults to "Z", meaning
it rotates horizontally, but otherwise pitch or roll.
.TP 8
.B \-no-spin
Same as \fB\-spin ''\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-speed \fIfloat\fP
A number controlling the frequency at which new blobs launch: you can
think of this as being related to the the heat of the lightbulb in
the base.  Default: 0.003.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fIusecs\fP
The delay between steps of the animation; default is 30000 (0.03 second.)
.TP 8
.B \-resolution \fIinteger\fP
The size of the grid from which the mesh is created that is used
to polygonize the blobs.  higher values will give very smooth looking
blobs, at the expense of speed.  Default: 40.

The options "-resolution 10 -no-smooth" look kind of interesting.
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate, CPU load, and polygon count.
.TP 8
.B \-count \fIinteger\fP
The maximum number of blobs that can be in motion at once.
Default: 3.
.TP 8
.B \-no-smooth
Turn off smoothing: the objects in the scene will be facetted.
.TP 8
.B \-wireframe
Render all objects in wireframe instead of as solids.
.TP 8
.B \-impatient
Provide this option if you are.  This will pre-warm the lamp, so when it
starts up, the first frame will show a blob already halfway up the lamp.
.TP 8
.B \-lava-color \fIcolor\fP
Specifies the color of the blobbies.  Default: red.
.TP 8
.B \-fluid-color \fIcolor\fP
Specifies the color of the fluid that the blobbies float in.
Default: light blue.
.TP 8
.B \-base-color \fIcolor\fP
Specifies the color of the lamp base, and the cap on top of the bottle.
Default: very dark gray.
.TP 8
.B \-table-color \fIcolor\fP
Specifies the color of the table that the lamp is sitting on.
Default: black (meaning it is invisible.)
.TP 8
.B \-fluid-texture \fIfilename\fP
An image file to wrap around the glass.

Note that on most systems, GL textures must have dimensions that are a
power of two.

Note also that colors and textures are both applied: so, if you apply a
texture and it isn't showing up, try specifying the corresponding color
as "white".  Otherwise, the combination of the two might be too dark to
see.
.TP 8
.B \-base-texture \fIfilename\fP
An image file to wrap around the base of the lamp, and the cap on top
of the bottle.
.TP 8
.B \-table-texture \fItexture\fP
An image file to spread across the table that the lamp is sitting on.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1),
.br
https://www.mathmos.com/
.br
https://web.archive.org/web/20010418035116/https%3A//www.lavarnd.org/
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2002 by Jamie Zawinski.
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and
its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is"
without express or implied warranty.

LAVA LITE\(rg and the configuration of the LAVA\(rg brand motion lamp
are registered trademarks of Haggerty Enterprises, Inc.  The
configuration of the globe and base of the motion lamp are registered
trademarks of Haggerty Enterprises, Inc. in the U.S.A. and in other
countries around the world.

.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski <jwz@jwz.org>
