.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
lockward \- Rotating spinning color-cycling things
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lockward
[\-display \fIdisplayspec\fP]
[\-root]
[\-window]
[\-visual \fIarg\fP]
[\-window-id \fIarg\fP]
[\-delay \fIusec\fP]
[\-pair]
[\-fps]
[\-blink | \-no-blink]
[\-rotateidle-min \fImsec\fP]
[\-rotateidle-max \fImsec\fP]
[\-blinkidle-min \fImsec\fP]
[\-blinkidle-max \fImsec\fP]
[\-blinkdwell-min \fImsec\fP]
[\-blinkdwell-max \fImsec\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lockward
draws a spinning, rotating set of notched wheels overlaid with some flashing
effects, using OpenGL.  It's a sort of cross between the wards in a
combination lock and those old information displays that animated via
polarized light.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the ID number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window (default).
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fImicroseconds\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 20000 (50 frames/sec).
.TP 8
.B \-blink | \-no-blink
Enables/disables the blinking effects.  Default: Enabled.
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate, CPU load, and polygon count.
.TP 8
.B \-rotateidle-min \fImilliseconds
.TP 8
.B \-rotateidle-max \fImilliseconds
The minimum and maximum time each spinner will sit idle, in milliseconds.
Defaults: Min 1000, max 6000.
.TP 8
.B \-blinkidle-min \fImilliseconds
.TP 8
.B \-blinkidle-max \fImilliseconds
The minimum and maximum time between blinking effects, in milliseconds.
Defaults: Min 1000, max 9000.
.TP 8
.B \-blinkdwell-min \fImilliseconds
.TP 8
.B \-blinkdwell-max \fImilliseconds
The minimum and maximum dwell time for the blinking effects, in
milliseconds.  This affects how quickly the blinks actually happen.
Defaults: Min 100, max 600.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
Default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
Name of a resource file that overrides the global resources stored in the
RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Leo L. Schwab <ewhac@best.com>
