.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
mapscroller \- a slowly-scrolling map of a random place on Earth.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mapscroller
[\-\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-\-window]
[\-\-root]
[\-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-delay \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-speed \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-duration \fIseconds\fP]
[\-\-map\-level \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-url-template URL]
[\-\-origin LAT/LON]
[\-\-no-titles]
[\-\-no-arrow]
[\-\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
A slowly-scrolling map of a random place on Earth.  The map images are loaded
from openstreetmap.org, or any compatible service.

The Earth is very big, and full of Things.

As you ponder these maps, remember that traffic always expands to fill all
available lanes, every car is a policy failure, and the concept of
"jaywalking" was invented for profit by auto industry lobbyists in the 1920s.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-\-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-\-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP
Draw on the specified window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 30000 (0.03 seconds).
.TP 8
.B \-\-speed \fInumber\fP
Scrolling speed.  2.0 means twice as fast, 0.5 means half as fast.
.TP 8
.B \-\-duration \fIseconds\fP
When in one of the random modes, re-select the map position every
N seconds.  Default 20 minutes.
.TP 8
.B \-\-map\-level \fInumber\fP
Larger numbers are zoomed in more. 5 - 18, default 15.
.TP 8
.B \-\-url-template \fIURL\fP
The map tile server to use. Default: Open Street Map.  You can find
others here:

\fIhttps://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Tiles#Servers\fP
.TP 8
.B \-\-origin \fIlocation\fP
"Random" means a fully random location somewhere on Earth, excluding
the oceans.

"Random-city" means to select from a built-in list of several hundred
major cities.  This is the default.

Otherwise, this must be a latitude/longitude pair, as floats.
.TP 8
.B \-\-titles | \-\-no-titles
Whether to show the current coordinates in the upper left.  Default true.
.TP 8
.B \-\-arrow | \-\-no-arrow
Whether to show a directional arrow in the middle of the screen.  Default true.
.TP 8
.B \-\-fps | \-\-no-fps
Whether to show a frames-per-second display at the bottom of the screen.
.SH FILES
The map tile images are loaded from the network and cached on disk. Up to 20MB
of them are retained.  Depending on your operating system, the cache directory
will be one of:
.nf
.sp
        $HOME/.cache/xscreensaver/mapscroller/
        $HOME/tmp/.xscreensaver-mapscroller/
        $HOME/.xscreensaver-mapscroller.cache/
        $HOME/Library/Caches/org.jwz.xscreensaver.mapscroller/
.fi
.SH BUGS
Some parts of the world are boring.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.TP 8
.B XSCREENSAVER_WINDOW
The window ID to use with \fI\-\-root\fP.
.TP 4
.B HTTP_PROXY, HTTPS_PROXY, http_proxy, or https_proxy
to get the default proxy host and port.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1),
.BR https://www.openstreetmap.org/
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2022 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.

OpenStreetMap map data is \(co OpenStreetMap contributors under the
Open Database License.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski.
