.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
maze3d \- A 3D maze.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B maze3d
[\-\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-\-window]
[\-\-root]
[\-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-speed \fIfloat\fP]
[\-\-delay \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-fps]
[\-\-rows \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-columns \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-overlay]
[\-\-wall-texture \fItexture\fP]
[\-\-floor-texture \fItexture\fP]
[\-\-ceiling-texture \fItexture\fP]
[\-\-drop-acid]
[\-\-drop-acid-walls]
[\-\-drop-acid-floor]
[\-\-drop-acid-ceiling]
[\-\-inverters \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-rats \fInumber\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
A recreation of the 3D Maze screensaver from Windows 95.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-\-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-\-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP
Draw on the specified window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-speed \fInumber\fP
Speed of the dungeon crawl. 2 is twice as fast, 0.5 is half as fast.
.TP 8
.B \-\-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds. Default: 20000 (0.02 seconds).
.TP 8
.B \-\-fps | \-\-no-fps
Display the current frame rate and CPU load.
.TP 8
.B \-\-rows \fInumber\fP
The number of rows in the maze. Default: 12.
.TP 8
.B \-\-columns \fInumber\fP
The number of columns in the maze. Default: 12.
.TP 8
.B \-\-overlay
Overlays a minimap of the maze on the screen.
.TP 8
.B \-\-wall-texture \fItexture\fP
Sets the wall texture. \fItexture\fP can be a path to an image file, or it can be one of the built-in textures (see TEXTURES below).
.TP 8
.B \-\-floor-texture \fItexture\fP
Sets the floor texture. \fItexture\fP can be a path to an image file, or it can be one of the built-in textures (see TEXTURES below).
.TP 8
.B \-\-ceiling-texture \fItexture\fP
Sets the ceiling texture. \fItexture\fP can be a path to an image file, or it can be one of the built-in textures (see TEXTURES below).
.TP 8
.B \-\-drop-acid-walls
Continuously shifts the hue of the wall texture. (This looks like an LSD trip, hence the name.)
.TP 8
.B \-\-drop-acid-floor
Continuously shifts the hue of the floor texture.
.TP 8
.B \-\-drop-acid-ceiling
Continuously shifts the hue of the ceiling texture.
.TP 8
.B \-\-drop-acid
Turns on all three.
.TP 8
.B \-\-inverters \fInumber\fP
Sets the number of inverters (the spinny grey things that flip the camera upside-down) in the maze. Default: 10.
.TP 8
.B \-\-rats \fInumber\fP
Sets the number of rats, or rather "Bobs", in the maze. Default: 1.
.TP 8
.SH TEXTURES
The wall, ceiling, and floor textures can be set to one of the following:
.TP 8
.B brick-wall
A brick wall. This is the default wall texture.
.TP 8
.B wood-floor
A wooden floor. This is the default floor texture.
.TP 8
.B ceiling-tiles
Ceiling tiles. This is the default ceiling texture.
.TP 8
You can also specify a path to an image file, instead of using one of the built-in textures.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.TP 8
.B XSCREENSAVER_WINDOW
The window ID to use with \fI\-\-root\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2018 by sudoer@riseup.net.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
