.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
mirrorblob - Draws a wobbly blob that distorts the image behind it.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mirrorblob
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-window]
[\-root]
[\-wire]
[\-delay \fInumber\fP]
[\-fog]
[\-walls]
[\-colour]
[\-texture]
[\-bgimage]
[\-offset_texture]
[\-blend]
[\-antialias]
[\-x_res \fInumber\fP]
[\-y_res \fInumber\fP]
[\-field_points \fInumber\fP]
[\-hold_frames \fInumber\fP]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Draws a wobbling blob, making use of alpha blending, fog,
textures, and lighting, plus a ``frames per second'' meter so that you can
tell how fast your graphics card is... Requires OpenGL.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.B \-wire
Render in wireframe instead of solid.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 10000 (0.01 seconds.).
.TP 8
.B \-fog | \-no-fog
Whether to enable fog.
.TP 8
.B \-walls | \-no-walls
Add walls for blob to hit.
.TP 8
.B \-colour | \-no-colour
Draw coloured blob.  If also textured, the texture will have color mixed in.
.TP 8
.B \-texture | \-no-texture
Whether to wrap a texture image on the blob.
.TP 8
.B \-bgimage | \-no-bgimage
Whether to also draw the texture on the background.
.TP 8
.B \-offset_texture | \-no-offset_texture
Whether to ofset the texture calculations to only use a region of the image
 under the blob.  This works well when blend is enabled.
.TP 8
.B \-blend | \-no-blend
Whether to enable blending. (see also offset_texture above)
.TP 8
.B \-antialias | \-no-antialias
Whether to anti-alias lines.
.TP 8
.B \-x_res \fInumber\fP
Number of verticies around the middle row of the blob (see also y_res).
.TP 8
.B \-y_res \fInumber\fP
Number of rows of verticies used to calculatethe blob, combined with x_res to
 indirectly determine the number of triangles used to draw blob.  Larger
 numbers give a smoother blob but increase calculation times exponentially.
.TP 8
.B \-field_points \fInumber\fP
Number of points used to distort the blob.
.TP 8
.B \-hold_frames \fInumber\fP
Number of frames between changing images.
.TP 8
.B \-fade_speed \fInumber\fP
Speed at which fading occurs when changing images.
.TP 8
.B \-fps | \-no-fps
Whether to show a frames-per-second display at the bottom of the screen.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2003 by Jon Dowdall.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jon Dowdall.
