.TH XScreenSaver 1 "30-Oct-99" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
moebiusgears \- draw a moebius strip of interlocking gears.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B moebiusgears
[\-\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-\-window] [\-\-root]
[\-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP][\-\-install]
[\-\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-\-delay \fIusecs\fP] 
[\-\-speed \fIfloat\fP] 
[\-\-no\-spin]
[\-\-no\-wander]
[\-\-no\-roll]
[-count \fIinteger\fP]
[-teeth \fIinteger\fP]
[-wireframe]
[-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fImoebiusgears\fP program draws a closed, interlinked chain of
rotating gears. The layout of the gears follows the path of a
moebius strip.
.SH OPTIONS
.I moebiusgears
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-\-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-\-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP
Draw on the specified window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-\-delay \fIusecs\fP
The delay between frames of the animation, in microseconds.
Default: 30000 (0.03 seconds.)
.TP 8
.B \-\-speed \fIfloat\fP
Larger numbers mean run faster.  Default: 1.0.
.TP 8
.B \-\-no\-spin
Don't rotate the object.
.TP 8
.B \-\-no\-wander
Don't wander the object around the screen.
.TP 8
.B \-\-no\-roll
Don't slowly roll the moebius strip inside out.
.TP 8
.B \-\-count \fIinteger\fP
How many gears to draw.  Default: 17.  Minimum 11, must be odd.
.TP 8
.B \-\-teeth \fIinteger\fP
How many teeth to draw on each draw.  Default: 15.  Minimum 7, must be odd.
.TP 8
.B \-\-wireframe
Render in wireframe instead of solid.
.TP 8
.B \-\-fps
Display the current frame rate, CPU load, and polygon count.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.TP 8
.B XSCREENSAVER_WINDOW
The window ID to use with \fI\-\-root\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2007 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski.
