.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
nakagin \- Nakagin Capsule Tower screen saver.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nakagin
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-window]
[\-root]
[\-delay \fInumber\fP]
[\-speed \fInumber\fP]
[\-no-spin]
[\-wander]
[\-no-tilt]
[\-wireframe]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Nakagin Capsule Tower was demolished in 2022, but this version will
continue to grow forever.

Constructed in 1972, the building was composed of small prefabricated rooms
attached to the two central towers.  The capsules were intended to be mass
produced and replaceable.  Utilities and fittings were installed before the
capsules were shipped to the site.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 30000 (0.03 seconds).
.TP 8
.B \-speed \fInumber\fP
Animation speed.  2.0 means twice as fast, 0.5 means half as fast.
.TP 8
.B \-spin | \-no-spin
Whether the building should slowly rotate.
.TP 8
.B \-wander | \-no-wander
Whether the building should wander around the screen.
.TP 8
.B \-tilt | \-no-tilt
Whether the observer should look up and down.
.TP 8
.B \-wireframe | \-no-wireframe
Render in wireframe instead of solid.
.TP 8
.B \-fps | \-no-fps
Whether to show a frames-per-second display at the bottom of the screen.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nakagin_Capsule_Tower,
.br
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2022 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski.
