.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
peepers \- floating eyeballs.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B peepers
[\-\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-\-window]
[\-\-root]
[\-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-delay \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-speed \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-count \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-mode bounce | scroll | random]
[\-\-wireframe]
[\-\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Eyeballs. They float. They bounce. They stare at your cursor.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-\-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-\-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP
Draw on the specified window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 30000 (0.03 seconds).
.TP 8
.B \-\-speed \fInumber\fP
Animation speed.  2.0 means twice as fast, 0.5 means half as fast.
.TP 8
.B \-\-count \fInumber\fP
Number of eyes. 0 means random.
.TP 8
.B \-\-mode bounce
The eyeballs bounce onto the screen from the bottom.  Like a cow.
.TP 8
.B \-\-mode scroll
The eyeballs scroll in from the left and right.
.TP 8
.B \-\-mode xeyes
The eyeballs remain stationary, but always turn to stare at the mouse
pointer, wherever it happens to be on the screen.  Perhaps best used
in conjunction with \fI\-\-count 2\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-\-mode beholder
Render a ball made of eyeballs, all looking at you. Valid \fI\-\-count\fP
values are 20, 80, 320 or 1280.
.TP 8
.B \-\-wireframe | \-\-no-wireframe
Render in wireframe instead of solid.
.TP 8
.B \-\-fps | \-\-no-fps
Whether to show a frames-per-second display at the bottom of the screen.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.TP 8
.B XSCREENSAVER_WINDOW
The window ID to use with \fI\-\-root\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2018 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski.
