.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
pipes \- fill the screen with a plumbing system.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pipes
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-window]
[\-root]
[-count 0]
[-count 1]
[-cycles \fInumber\fP]
[-size \fInumber\fP]
[-factory \fInumber\fP]
[-delay \fInumber\fP]
[-no-fisheye]
[-tightturns]
[-db]
[-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
If you've ever been in the same room as a Windows NT machine, you've
probably seen this GL hack.  It fills the screen with a plumbing system.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-count 0
Curved Pipes.
.TP 8
.B \-count 1
Ball Joints.
.TP 8
.B \-cycles \fInumber\fP
Number of pipe systems to draw at once.  Default: 5.
.TP 8
.B \-size \fInumber\fP
Length of each pipe system.  Default: 500.
.TP 8
.B \-factory \fInumber\fP
How much gadgetry to create; Useful range is 0-10.  Default: 2.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fInumber\fP
How long (in microseconds) to sleep between frames.  Default: 10000.
.TP 8
.B \-fisheye | \-no-fisheye
Whether to use a fisheye lens.
.TP 8
.B \-tightturns | \-no-tightturns
Whether to allow tight turns.
.TP 8
.B \-db | \-no-db
Whether to double-buffer.
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate, CPU load, and polygon count.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2002 by Marcelo Vianna.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Marcelo Vianna.
