.TH XScreenSaver 1 "May 2002"
.SH NAME
queens \- n queens screensaver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B queens
[\-\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-\-window]
[\-\-root]
[\-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-install]
[\-\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-\-delay \fImicroseconds\fP]
[\-\-wireframe]
[\-\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIqueens\fP program solves the n-queens problem (where, in this
program, N is between 5 and 10 queens) using a straightforward
backtracking algorithm.  The problem is: how may one place N queens 
on an NxN chessboard such that no queen can attack a sister?
.SH OPTIONS
.I queens
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-\-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-\-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP
Draw on the specified window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-visual \fIvisual\fP\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-\-wireframe
Render in wireframe instead of solid.
.B \-\-fps
Display the current frame rate, CPU load, and polygon count.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.TP 8
.B XSCREENSAVER_WINDOW
The window ID to use with \fI\-\-root\fP.
.SH BUGS
It's not unknown for this and other OpenGL hacks to fail under hardware accelaration (UtahGLX) and take the X server with them.  Texture images must be 16x16 or 32x32 or 64x64 etc.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.BR xscreensaver\-settings (1),
.BR xscreensaver\-getimage (MANSUFFIX)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2002 by Blair Tennessy.  Permission to use, copy, modify,
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Blair Tennessy <tennessb@unbc.ca>, 20-April-2002.
 
