.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
raverhoop \- Simulates an LED hula hoop in a dark room.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B raverhoop
[\-\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-\-window]
[\-\-root]
[\-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-delay \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-ncolors \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-lights \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-speed \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-light-speed \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-sustain \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-no-wander]
[\-\-no-spin]
[\-\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Simulates an LED hula hoop in a dark room. Oontz oontz oontz.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-\-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-\-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP
Draw on the specified window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 20000 (0.02 seconds).
.TP 8
.B \-\-ncolors \fInumber\fP
The number of colors to use on the hoop.  Default: 12.
.TP 8
.B \-\-lights \fInumber\fP
The number of LEDs comprising the hoop.  Default: 200.
.TP 8
.B \-\-speed \fInumber\fP
Speed of the motion of the object.
2.0 means twice as fast, 0.5 means half as fast.
.TP 8
.B \-\-light-speed \fInumber\fP
Speed at which the lights animate.
2.0 means twice as fast, 0.5 means half as fast.
.TP 8
.B \-\-sustain \fInumber\fP
Speed at which the after-images / vapor trails fade away.
2.0 means they last twice as long, 0.5 means half as long.
.TP 8
.B \-\-wander | \-\-no-wander
Whether the object should wander around the screen.
.TP 8
.B \-\-spin | \-\-no-spin
Whether the scene itself should spin.
.TP 8
.B \-\-fps | \-\-no-fps
Whether to show a frames-per-second display at the bottom of the screen.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.TP 8
.B XSCREENSAVER_WINDOW
The window ID to use with \fI\-\-root\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2016 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski.
