.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
razzledazzle \- screen saver.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B razzledazzle
[\-\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-\-window]
[\-\-root]
[\-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-delay \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-speed \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-ncolors \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-density \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-thickness \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-mode \fIstring\fP]
[\-\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Generates an infinitely-scrolling sequence of dazzle camouflage patterns.
Dazzle Ships were military vessels during World War I and early in World
War II that were painted not to conceal but to confuse: with these Cubist
overlapping stripes, it was very hard to estimate their size, range and
heading. This was a big deal before the invention of Radar.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-\-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-\-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP
Draw on the specified window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 30000 (0.03 seconds).
.TP 8
.B \-\-speed \fInumber\fP
Animation speed.  2.0 means twice as fast, 0.5 means half as fast.
.TP 8
.B \-\-ncolors \fInumber\fP
Colors.  Default: 2.
.TP 8
.B \-\-density \fInumber\fP
Thickness of the grid, and overall complexity.  1 - 10.  Default: 5.0.
.TP 8
.B \-\-thickness \fInumber\fP
Thickness of the lines. 0.05 - 1.0.  Default: 0.1.
.TP 8
.B \-\-mode \fIstring\fP
Random, Ships or Flat. Default Random.
.TP 8
.B \-\-fps | \-\-no-fps
Whether to show a frames-per-second display at the bottom of the screen.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.TP 8
.B XSCREENSAVER_WINDOW
The window ID to use with \fI\-\-root\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2018 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski.
