.TH XScreenSaver 1 "04-Feb-09" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
rubikblocks \- animates the Rubik's Mirror Blocks puzzle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rubikblocks
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-window]
[\-root]
[\-install]
[\-delay \fImicroseconds\fP]
[\-texture] [\-no\-texture]
[\-mono]
[\-wireframe]
[\-spin] [\-no\-spin]
[\-wander] [\-no\-wander]
[\-randomize] [\-no\-randomize]
[\-spinspeed \fInumber\fP]
[\-rotspeed \fInumber\fP]
[\-wanderspeed \fInumber\fP]
[\-wait \fInumber\fP]
[\-cubesize \fInumber\fP]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program animates a puzzle called Rubik's Mirror Blocks.
The moves are chosen randomly.
.SH OPTIONS
.I rubikblocks
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fImicroseconds\fP
How long to pause between frames.  Default is 20000, or 0.02 second.
.TP 8
.B \-texture
Use texture maps.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-no\-texture
Use solid colors.  Looks a bit weird.
.TP 8
.B \-mono
Disable both texture maps and colors.  Ditto.
.TP 8
.B \-wireframe
Only draw outlines.  Outlines of each piece, not only the whole object, are drawn.
.TP 8
.B \-spin
Spin the whole object around X, Y and Z axes.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-no\-spin
Do not spin, stay in the same tilt all the time.
.TP 8
.B \-wander
Move the object around the screen.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-no\-wander
Keep the object centered on the screen.
.TP 8
.B \-randomize
Shuffle the puzzle randomly at startup.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-no\-randomize
Do not shuffle at startup, begin at the shape of cube.
.TP 8
.B \-spinspeed \fInumber\fP
The relative speed of spinning.  Default is 1.0.
.TP 8
.B \-rotspeed \fInumber\fP
The relative speed of the moves.  Default is 3.0.  Setting to \(<= 0.0
makes the object stay at one configuration.
.TP 8
.B \-wanderspeed \fInumber\fP
The relative speed of wandering around the screen.  Default is 0.02.
.TP 8
.B \-wait \fInumber\fP
How long to stay at final position after each move.  The meaning of
the argument is again relative.  Default is 40.0.
.TP 8
.B \-cubesize \fInumber\fP
Size of the object.  Value of 3.0 fills roughly all the screen.
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate, CPU load, and polygon count.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2009 by Vasek Potocek.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Vasek Potocek <vasek.potocek@post.cz>, 04-Feb-09.
