.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
skytentacles - 3D tentacles from the sky!
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B skytentacles
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-window]
[\-root]
[\-delay \fIint\fP]
[\-speed \fIratio\fP]
[\-count \fIint\fP]
[\-slices \fIint\fP]
[\-length \fIfloat\fP]
[\-wiggliness \fIratio\fP]
[\-flexibility \fIratio\fP]
[\-color \fIcolor\fP]
[\-stripe\-color \fIcolor\fP]
[\-sucker\-color \fIcolor\fP]
[\-segments \fIint\fP]
[\-thickness \fIratio\fP]
[\-no\-smooth]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
There is a tentacled abomination in the sky.  From above you it devours.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fIint\fP
Delay between frames, in microseconds.  Default 30000.
.TP 8
.B \-speed \fIratio\fP
Less than 1 for slower, greater than 1 for faster.  Default 1.
.TP 8
.B \-count \fIint\fP
How many tentacles.  Default 8.
.TP 8
.B \-thickness \fIratio\fP
Less than 1 for thinner tentacles, greater than 1 for thicker.  Default 1.
.TP 8
.B \-length \fIratio\fP
Length of the tentacles.  Default 9.
.TP 8
.B \-wiggliness \fIratio\fP
A measure of how bendy the tentacles are.  Smaller numbers result in
smoother flexing; larger numbers make it "crinkly".  Default 0.35.
.TP 8
.B \-flexibility \fIratio\fP
Another measure of how bendy the tentacles are.  Smaller numbers
result in straighter tentacles; larger numbers result in more extreme
curves.  Default 0.35.
.TP 8
.B \-color \fIcolor\fP
.TP 8
.B \-stripe\-color \fIcolor\fP
.TP 8
.B \-sucker\-color \fIcolor\fP
The colors of the various parts of the tentacle.  Default green
with a redish stripe.
.TP 8
.B \-slices \fIint\fP
.TP 8
.B \-segments \fIint\fP
Larger numbers increase number of polygons in the object mesh.
Default 32.
.TP 8
.B \-no\-smooth
Make the tentacles appear faceted instead of smooth.
.TP 8
.B \-fps | \-no-fps
Whether to show a frames-per-second display at the bottom of the screen.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2008 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski.
