.de EX		\"Begin example
.ne 5
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp .5
.nf
.in +.5i
..
.de EE
.fi
.in -.5i
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp .5
..
.TH XScreenSaver 1 "25-Jul-98" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
starwars - draws a perspective text crawl, like at the beginning of the movie
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B starwars
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP] [\-window] [\-root]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-delay \fImicroseconds\fP]
[\-program \fIcommand\fP]
[\-size \fIinteger\fP ]
[\-columns \fIinteger\fP]
[\-wrap | \-no\-wrap]
[\-left | \-center | \-right]
[\-lines \fIinteger\fP]
[\-spin \fIfloat\fP]
[\-steps \fIinteger\fP]
[\-delay \fIusecs\fP]
[\-font \fIxlfd\fP]
[\-no\-textures]
[\-no\-smooth]
[\-no\-thick]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIstarwars\fP program runs another program to generate a stream of
text, then animates that text receeding into the background at an angle,
in front of a star field.
.SH OPTIONS
.I starwars
accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-install
Install a private colormap for the window.
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-program \fIsh-command\fP
The command to run to generate the text to display.  This option may be
any string acceptable to /bin/sh.  The program will be run at the end of
a pipe, and any characters that it prints to \fIstdout\fP will be printed
on the starwars window.  If the program exits, it will be launched again
after we have processed all the text it produced.

Note that starwars is \fInot\fP a terminal emulator: programs that try to
directly address the screen will not do what you might expect.  This
program merely draws the characters on the screen left to right, top 
to bottom, in perspective.  Lines (may) wrap when they reach the right 
edge.

In other words, programs like
.BR fortune (1)
will work, but programs like
.BR top (1)
won't.

Some examples:
.EX
starwars -program 'cat /usr/src/linux*/README'
starwars -columns 30 -program 'ping www.starwars.com'
starwars -left -no-wrap -program 'ps -auxwwf'
starwars -left -no-wrap -columns 45 -program 'top -bn1'
starwars -left -columns 40 -program 'od -txC /dev/urandom'
starwars -font fixed -program 'od -txC /dev/urandom'
.EE
.TP 8
.B \-size \fIinteger\fP
How large a font to use, in points.  (Well, in some arbitrary unit 
we're calling "points" for the sake of argument.)  Default: 24.
.TP 8
.B \-columns \fIinteger\fP
How many columns of text should be visible on the bottom line of the
screen.  Default: 60.

Only one of \fI\-columns\fP and \fI\-size\fP may be specified;
if both are specified, \fI\-columns\fP takes priority.
.TP 8
.B \-wrap
Word-wrap lines when they reach the rightmost column.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-no\-wrap
Do not word-wrap: just let the lines go off the right side of the screen.
.TP 8
.B \-left | \-center | \-right
Whether to align the text flush left, centered, or flush right.
The default is centered.
.TP 8
.B \-lines \fIinteger\fP
How many lines should be allowed to be on the screen before they fall off
the end.  The default is 125.
.TP 8
.B \-spin \fIfloat\fP
The star field on the background slowly rotates.  This is how fast.
The default is 0.03.
.TP 8
.B \-steps \fIinteger\fP
How many steps should be used to scroll a single line.  The default is 35.
If the animation looks jerky to you, increase this number.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fIusecs\fP
The delay between steps of the animation; default is 40000 (1/25th second.)
.TP 8
.B \-font \fIfont-name\fP
The name of the font to use.  For best effect, this should be a large
font (at least 36 points.)  The bigger the font, the better looking the
characters will be.  Note that the size of this font affects only the
clarity of the characters, not their size on the screen: for that, use
the \fI\-size\fP or \fI\-columns\fP options.

Default: -*-utopia-bold-r-normal-*-*-720-*-*-*-*-iso8859-1
.TP 8
.B \-no\-textures
Instead of texture-mapping a real font to render the text, use a
built-in font composed of line segments.  On graphics cards without
texture support, the line-segment font will have much better
performance.
.TP 8
.B \-no\-smooth
When using the line-segment font, turn off anti-aliasing of the lines
used to draw the font.  This will make the text blockier, but may
improve performance.
.TP 8
.B \-no\-thick
When using the line-segment font, turn off use of thick lines for the
characters that are close to the foreground.  This will make the text
appear unnaturally skinny, but may improve performance.
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display a running tally of how many frames per second are being rendered.
In conjunction with \fB\-delay 0\fP, this can be a useful benchmark of 
your GL performance.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xscreensaver (1),
.BR xscreensaver-text (1),
.BR fortune (1),
.BR phosphor (1),
.BR apple2 (1),
.BR fontglide (1),
.BR ljlatest (1),
.BR dadadodo (1),
.BR webcollage (1),
.BR driftnet (1)
.BR EtherPEG ,
.BR EtherPeek
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1998-2005 by Jamie Zawinski and Claudio Matsuoka.
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and
its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is"
without express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski <jwz@jwz.org> and Claudio Matauoka <claudio@helllabs.org>
