.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
surfaces - Draws some interesting 3d parametric surfaces.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B surfaces
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-window]
[\-root]
[\-speed \fInumber\fP]
[\-rand]
[\-spin]
[\-wander]
[\-fps]
[\-surface \fIsurface-name\fP]
[\-random-surface]
[\-dini]
[\-enneper]
[\-kuen]
[\-moebius]
[\-seashell]
[\-swallowtail]
[\-bohemian]
[\-whitney]
[\-pluecker]
[\-henneberg]
[\-catalan]
[\-corkscrew]
[\-mode \fIdisplay-mode\fP]
[\-random-mode]
[\-points]
[\-lines]
[\-line-loops]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This draws one of several three dimensional parametric surfaces.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual
class, or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 20000 (0.02 seconds.).
.TP 8
.B \-speed \fInumber\fP
Number of frames before changing shape.  Default: 1000.
.TP 8
.B \-surface random \fP(Shortcut: \fB\-random-surface\fP)
Display a random surface.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-surface dini \fP(Shortcut: \fB\-dini\fP)
Display Dini's surface.
.TP 8
.B \-surface enneper \fP(Shortcut: \fB\-enneper\fP)
Display Enneper's minimal surface.
.TP 8
.B \-surface kuen \fP(Shortcut: \fB\-kuen\fP)
Display the Kuen surface.
.TP 8
.B \-surface moebius \fP(Shortcut: \fB\-moebius\fP)
Display the Moebius strip.
.TP 8
.B \-surface seashell \fP(Shortcut: \fB\-seashell\fP)
Display the seashell surface.
.TP 8
.B \-surface swallowtail \fP(Shortcut: \fB\-swallowtail\fP)
Display the swallowtail catastrophe.
.TP 8
.B \-surface bohemian \fP(Shortcut: \fB\-bohemian\fP)
Display the Bohemian dome.
.TP 8
.B \-surface whitney \fP(Shortcut: \fB\-whitney\fP)
Display the Whitney umbrella.
.TP 8
.B \-surface pluecker \fP(Shortcut: \fB\-pluecker\fP)
Display Pluecker's conoid.
.TP 8
.B \-surface henneberg \fP(Shortcut: \fB\-henneberg\fP)
Display Henneberg's minimal surface.
.TP 8
.B \-surface catalan \fP(Shortcut: \fB\-catalan\fP)
Display Catalan's minimal surface.
.TP 8
.B \-surface corkscrew \fP(Shortcut: \fB\-corkscrew\fP)
Display the corkscrew surface.
.TP 8
.B \-mode random \fP(Shortcut: \fB\-random-mode\fP)
Use random OpenGL primitives to display the surface.  This is the
default.
.TP 8
.B \-mode points \fP(Shortcut: \fB\-points\fP)
Use OpenGL points to display the surface.
.TP 8
.B \-mode lines \fP(Shortcut: \fB\-lines\fP)
Use OpenGL lines to display the surface.
.TP 8
.B \-mode line-loops \fP(Shortcut: \fB\-line-loops\fP)
Use OpenGL line loops to display the surface.
.TP 8
.B \-wander | \-no-wander
Whether to wander around the screen.
.TP 8
.B \-spin | \-no-spin
Whether to rotate around the center of the figure.
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate, CPU load, and polygon count.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Andrey Mirtchovski, Carsten Steger
