.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
tronbit \- Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes yes yes yes yes.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tronbit
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-window]
[\-root]
[\-delay \fInumber\fP]
[\-speed \fIratio\fP]
[\-spin]
[\-wander]
[\-wireframe]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Draws an animation of the character "Bit" from the film, \fITron\fP.

The "yes" state is a tetrahedron; the "no" state is the second
stellation of an icosahedron; and the idle state oscillates between
a small triambic icosahedron and the compound of an icosahedron and
a dodecahedron.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 30000 (0.03 seconds.).
.TP 8
.B \-speed \fInumber\fP
How fast the animation should run.
Less than 1 for slower, greater than 1 for faster.
.TP 8
.B \-no\-spin
Don't rotate.
.TP 8
.B \-no\-wander
Don't wander around.
.TP 8
.B \-wireframe
Render in wireframe instead of solid.
.TP 8
.B \-fps
Display the current frame rate, CPU load, and polygon count.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR polyhedra (1),
.BR dangerball (1),
.BR companioncube (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1),
.BR TRON.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2011 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy,
modify, distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for
any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that the above
copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
No representations are made about the suitability of this software for
any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied
warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski, who fights for the users.
