.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
unicrud - Bounces a random Unicode character on the screen.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B unicrud
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-window]
[\-root]
[\-delay \fInumber\fP]
[\-speed \fInumber\fP]
[\-block \fIstring\fP]
[\-no-titles]
[\-no-wander]
[\-no-roll]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Chooses a random Unicode character and displays it full screen, along with
some information about it. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unicode
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 20000 (0.02 seconds).
.TP 8
.B \-speed \fInumber\fP
Animation speed.  2.0 means twice as fast, 0.5 means half as fast.
.TP 8
.B \-titles | \-no-titles
Whether to describe the character being shown. Default true.
.TP 8
.B \-wander | \-no-wander
Whether the object should wander around the screen.
.TP 8
.B \-roll | \-no-roll
Whether the object should rotate.  Boolean.
.TP 8
.B \-block \fIstring\fP
Which block or blocks of Unicode characters to display.  Default: "all".
Use \fI\-block help\fP to see the full list.
.TP 8
.B \-fps | \-no-fps
Whether to show a frames-per-second display at the bottom of the screen.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2016 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski.
