.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
voronoi - draws a randomly-colored Voronoi tessellation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B voronoi
[\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-window]
[\-root]
[\-points \fIint\fP]
[\-point\-size \fIint\fP]
[\-point\-speed \fIratio\fP]
[\-point\-delay \fIseconds\fP]
[\-zoom\-speed \fIratio\fP]
[\-zoom\-delay \fIseconds\fP]
[\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Draws a randomly-colored Voronoi tessellation, and periodically zooms 
in and adds new points.  The existing points also wander around.

There are a set of control points on the plane, each at the center of
a colored cell.  Every pixel within that cell is closer to that cell's
control point than to any other control point.  That is what
determines the cell's shapes.

When running in a window, you can click  to insert a new point at
the mouse position.  Clicking on an existing point lets you drag
it around.

This implementation takes advantage of the OpenGL depth buffer to
compute the cells for us, by rendering the intersection of overlapping
cones in an orthographic plane.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-points \fIint\fP
How many points to add each time we zoom in.
.TP 8
.B \-point\-size \fIint\fP
How big to draw the stars, in pixels.  0 for no stars.
.TP 8
.B \-point\-speed \fIratio\fP
How fast the points should wander.  
Less than 1 for slower, greater than 1 for faster.
.TP 8
.B \-point\-delay \fIseconds\fP
How quickly to insert new points, when adding.
.TP 8
.B \-zoom\-speed \fIratio\fP
How fast to zoom in.
Less than 1 for slower, greater than 1 for faster.
.TP 8
.B \-zoom\-delay \fIseconds\fP
Zoom in every this-many seconds.
.TP 8
.B \-fps | \-no-fps
Whether to show a frames-per-second display at the bottom of the screen.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2007 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski.
