.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
winduprobot \- screen saver.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B winduprobot
[\-\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-\-window]
[\-\-root]
[\-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-delay \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-count \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-speed \fIratio\fP]
[\-\-size \fIratio\fP]
[\-\-opacity \fIratio\fP]
[\-\-talk \fIratio\fP]
[\-\-no-texture]
[\-\-no-fade]
[\-\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
A swarm of wind-up toy robots wander around the table-top, bumping into
each other. Each robot contains a mechanically accurate gear system inside,
which you can see when the robot's shell occasionally fades to
transparency.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-\-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-\-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window\-id \fInumber\fP
Draw on the specified window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 20000 (0.02 seconds).
.TP 8
.B \-\-count \fInumber\fP
Number of robots.  1 - 100.  Default: 25.
.TP 8
.B \-\-speed \fIratio\fP
Animation speed.  2.0 means twice as fast, 0.5 means half as fast.
.TP 8
.B \-\-size \fIratio\fP
Robot size.  2.0 means twice as big, 0.5 means half as big.
.TP 8
.B \-\-opacity \fIratio\fP
Robot skin transparency.  0.0 - 1.0.  Default: 1.0.
.TP 8
.B \-\-talk \fIratio\fP
How often to occasionally pop up a word bubble with random text in it.
0.0 means never. 1.0 means often.
.TP 8
.B \-\-texture | \-\-no-texture
Whether the robot's surface should be reflective chrome.
.TP 8
.B \-\-fade | \-\-no-fade
Whether to sometimes fade the robot's opacity to show the inner mechanism.
.TP 8
.B \-\-fps | \-\-no-fps
Whether to show a frames-per-second display at the bottom of the screen.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.TP 8
.B XSCREENSAVER_WINDOW
The window ID to use with \fI\-\-root\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.BR xscreensaver\-text (MANSUFFIX)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2014 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski.
