.TH XScreenSaver 1 "" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
worldpieces \- globe assembly screen saver.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B worldpieces
[\-\-display \fIhost:display.screen\fP]
[\-\-visual \fIvisual\fP]
[\-\-window]
[\-\-root]
[\-\-delay \fInumber\fP]
[\-\-speed \fIratio\fP]
[\-\-no\-wander]
[\-\-no\-rotate]
[\-\-spin \fIratio\fP]
[\-\-speed \fIratio\fP]
[\-\-no\-stars]
[\-\-underground]
[\-\-fastforward]
[\-\-wireframe]
[\-\-fps]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Earth fills up with countries one at a time, solving international
relations like a jigsaw puzzle.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-\-visual \fIvisual\fP
Specify which visual to use.  Legal values are the name of a visual class,
or the id number (decimal or hex) of a specific visual.
.TP 8
.B \-\-window
Draw on a newly-created window.  This is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-\-root
Draw on the root window.
.TP 8
.B \-\-delay \fInumber\fP
Per-frame delay, in microseconds.  Default: 20000 (0.02 seconds).
.TP 8
.B \-\-speed \fIratio\fP
Animation speed.  2.0 means twice as fast, 0.5 means half as fast.
.TP 8
.B \-\-wander | \-\-no\-wander
Whether the planet should wander around the screen.
.TP 8
.B \-\-spin \fIratio\fP
Whether and how fast the planet should rotate around the axis.
2.0 means twice as fast, 0.5 means half as fast.
.TP 8
.B \-\-roll | \-\-no\-roll
Whether the planet should wobble.
.TP 8
.B \-\-stars | \-\-no\-stars
Whether to display a star field.
.TP 8
.B \-\-underground | \-\-no\-underground
Whether to show the seamy underbelly of the countries.
.TP 8
.B \-\-fastforward | \-\-no\-fastforward
If you are impatient waiting for the countries to fill in, this will
initially skip ahead a bit.
.TP 8
.B \-\-wireframe | \-\-no\-wireframe
Render in wireframe instead of solid.
.TP 8
.B \-\-image \fIfile\fP
The image to use for the Earth's surface.
.TP 8
.B \-\-fps | \-\-no\-fps
Whether to show a frames-per-second display at the bottom of the screen.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.TP 8
.B XSCREENSAVER_WINDOW
The window ID to use with \fI\-\-root\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2026 by Jamie Zawinski.  Permission to use, copy, modify, 
distribute, and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose is 
hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear 
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation.  No representations are made about the 
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Zawinski.
